The key to Human Design analysis lies in understanding the Rave Body Graph circuitry. An individual Rave Chart is not something which is interpreted. A Rave Analysis is a Reading.

The entire data base of information, the Personality (Birth) and Design (Pre-Natal) can be found and read in the Rave I'Ching. Design is not about interpretation. It is an objective and logical system. The only knowledge required is how Rave Body Graph circuitry functions.

Perhaps the most unusual aspect of Design is that the data base is transferred directly into the "body." Unlike Astrology where the data base must be interpreted through angle relationships in a wheel, in Design the data base immediately has a clearly defined framework, a place in the body where it functions.

The Human Design System is a synthesis of the world's collective wisdom. The truth of this wisdom is its accessibility. As a synthesis, the system is both simple and profound. It has been taught to people of all ages. The path to this knowledge is through understanding the Rave Graphic. All the fundamental knowledge one seeks about oneself and others can be easily discovered once one grasps how the human energy circuitry operates.

The Nine Centers

The foundation of the Rave Body Graph circuitry is the nine centers. These centers are rooted in the Hindu/Brahmin Chakra system.

The nine centers have different responsibilities and are associated with different biologies and biological functions. We will deal with these centers in detail as we progress, but at this point what is essential is to understand their basic work. To begin with the centers (except the G and the Throat) have group functions;

The Pressure Centers - Head & Root

The Motors- Heart, Sacral, Solar Plexus & Root

The Centers of awareness- Spleen, Ajna & Solar Plexus

The Throat center and the G center have unique functions within the circuitry. Before examining these centers and their functions, it is essential to begin with the foundation of Design analysis, Definition. Whatever the potential may be of any center, only Definition indicates whether this center is active or not. Definition is a graphic key to analysis. There are channels throughout the body Graph. These channels act as connecting agents to bring together the potentials of the centers into an integrated system.

In the graphic, where the channel meets a center, this is called a gate. These gates, as you will see can be activated by the Sun, the Moon, the Moon's Nodes, and the Planets as they transit the zodiac. When the gates have been activated at either end of a channel, opening up the flow of information between the two, this is called, Definition. This is graphically illustrated by coloring in the entire channel and the linked centers. Definition is by its very nature fixed, it does not change. It is the most stable feature of an individual's Design. What is defined in the individual Rave Chart will always be defined until the end of the Life. It does not change. It is therefore consistent and reliable.

Definition is the heart of Design Analysis. It is the basic binary. It is either on or off. There is no gray area. Since Definition is consistent throughout the life and can be relied upon, it is in fact our true nature. It is not however, the nature that an individual necessarily lives out. All human Designs are variations of ratios between what is defined and what is not. It is not a question of which is better. They are different. Where Definition is consistent and reliable, lack of Definition is inconsistent, unreliable and always open to conditioning. This is the most profound and accessible feature of Human Design circuitry. Written above the ancient Oracle of Delphi was the statement, "Know Thyself." It is our sole human purpose. There can be no surrender without absolute self-knowledge.

It is quite common for students of Design to begin with the notion that Definition is superior to lack of Definition. The value of Definition is that it is reliable, an anchor, but it is fixed and therefore limited. Areas without Definition are open and therefore have a wide potential for experience. The key is awareness not Definition. To understand where you are subject to conditioning, frees the individual from identifying with the conditioning and opens up a window to awareness. More important, in terms of the human life experience, in a world where everyone was completely defined, we would never want or need each other!

"All Roads Lead to Rome"

Manifestation: The Throat Center

Throat: Expression-The Thyroid and Para-Thyroid glands

The Throat center is the most complex of all the centers. It has eleven gates out of which it operates. It is responsible for all of our expressive potential, to speak and to act is conditioned by the Throat. The Throat is obviously the center for our verbal capacity. Through Design circuitry, you can see what is really speaking in a person. If the Throat is defined to an awareness center (Spleen, Ajna or Solar Plexus), it is that awareness which is speaking. When the Throat is defined to the Ajna center then the mind speaks and its concepts can be verbalized. When the Throat is defined to the Solar Plexus, then it is the emotions which are speaking; and when the Throat is defined to the Spleen then the instincts are talking. Definition to the higher Self of the G center gives the otherwise silent higher Self, its voice. Similarly, when the definition is to the Heart, the ego and its will speaks; and when defined to the Sacral center, the sexuality speaks. Only the Pressure centers, (Head & Root) have no direct access to the Throat and therefore do not have a unique voice or distinct quality of manifestation.

We are a communicative species, and it is through the Throat center that this gift is realized. An undefined Throat center limits the ability of a person to express themselves, to communicate. In a simple generalization, the defined Throat centers are always talking and the undefined Throat centers, want to. An undefined center is always subject to conditioning, The capacity to express oneself is there or its not. An individual with an undefined Throat living with a partner with a defined Throat always is being conditioned verbally. The type of expression is being determined and fixed by their partner.

The complexity of the Throat center extends beyond our capacity to express ourselves verbally. The Throat is the core of Design circuitry. Everything is always moving towards the Throat; to find its expression, Verbal Communication and its Manifestation, to Act. Only when the Throat center is defined to one of the Body Graphs four motors can action take place.

This brings us to the second duality in design. The first we have already looked at, that is, that some centers are defined and some are not. The second duality and a basic fact of human life, is whether a being is a "Doer," or not.

A Doer is someone who has definition between the Throat center and one or more of the four motors.(Heart/Will; Solar Plexus/Emotion; Sacral/Fertility; and Root/Kundalini). Those who have a Throat defined to a motor can always do, and those with an undefined Throat center, or a defined Throat center but not defined to a motor, always want to do.

The Four Motors

The Energy to Manifest

The Four Motors

The Heart: Ego Will Power. Thymus Stomach

The Solar Plexus: Emotions. Kidney I Pancreas

The Sacral: Power of Fertility. Ovaries and Testes

The Root: Kundalini. Adrenalin

The quality of the motor determines the nature of the action and how it is perceived. If the Throat is defined to the Heart center, the resulting action and speech will be fueled by will power and bolstered by the ego. The Throat defined to the Solar Plexus will fuel all conversations and actions with its emotional quality.

The ability to analyze a Rave despite what appears to be a complexity of material, is based on Common Sense. When the Throat is connected to the Heart, to the ego, it is obvious that all the actions and communications will carry the ego's quality and its will power energy, regardless of whether the person wishes to be willful or not. It will be a quality that always defines them.

Overview analysis is based on having a strong foundation. The foundation is the simple truths, out of these simple truths all of the complexity grows... Where your energy comes from tells you a great deal about yourself and how you affect others. The Root center is the only motor that has no direct access to the Throat center. Its individual quality is always masked by the center it is defined to.

The four motors should not be misconstrued as simply being engines which empower the "Vehicle." Their function as motors is an aspect of their potential. Both the Solar Plexus and the Root as an example, have dual functions. The Solar Plexus is also one of the three centers of awareness, along with the Ajna and the Spleen, and this emotional awareness potential is of the utmost importance to humanity. It was noted above that the Root does not connect directly to the Throat. It is by far the most fundamental energy source. Except for the mental processes, there is not a single aspect of manifestation that is not dependent on Root energy. The ancients referred to this prime energy as Kundalini. With its biological affiliation to the Adrenal Glands, it is not difficult to imagine the power inherent in the Root center.

Like the Solar Plexus, the Root center has a dual function. It is one of the Body Graph's two Pressure centers.

The Two Pressure Centers

The Fuel Stations

The Pressure centers are symbolic of the expression, so above, so below. The Head and Root represent this reality and both of them exert pressure.

The Head center represents the pressure which fuels our conceptualizing processes. It is a pressure to form a mental conceptualization of the world and life. It is the pressure to be self-conscious and to ultimately express the awareness through verbal communication. The Head center is associated with the Pineal Gland. It is the Pineal which controls the flow of information between the massive gray areas of the Brain and the Neo-Cortex. It is through the Neo-Cortex, we humans experience our mental organization of our reality. The Head center, the center of Inspiration is not Aware! It is a Fuel, releasing information, data to the Ajna center for potential awareness processing.

The Pressure to Realize 64:

Head Pressure

63: The Pressure to Formulize

61 :The Pressure to Rationalize

The Root center represents the pressure which fuels our evolution. It is the pressure to evolve and adapt to the world and life. It is the pressure to be. Root energy is essential for every aspect of manifestation in our lives.

The Pressure to Perfect 58:

The Pressure to Struggle 38:

The Pressure to Transform 54:

Root Pressures

19: The Pressure to be Sensitive

39: The Pressure to Emote

41: Pressure to Feel

53: The Pressure to Comple

60: The Pressure to Mutate

52: The Pressure to Concentrate

The Centers of Awareness

The Three Potential Areas of self-consciousness

No single feature of the Human Design System has greater significance in how we experience our lives than the three centers of awareness. Only these three centers, the Spleen, the Ajna and the Solar Plexus have the potential of awareness. No other centers in the Body Graph are potentially aware. These centers are referred to as Mechanical. The three centers of awareness are equal in their capacity to guide the life. The Rave Body Graph is a window revealing which awareness is actually reliable and which is not. center of awareness is active when it is defined. An undefined center of awareness is opened to the deepest conditioning; a conditioning which is much more profound than the effects on an undefined Mechanical center.

Each center of awareness has the same capacity to guide the life. like the assumption that defined is better than undefined, one center does not have any advantage over any other center. Awareness has evolved over time. Each of the awareness centers represents a different stage in our awareness evolution. In the Glossary of Terms (see Nature, Design of) there is an illustration of the Designs of other forms of life. Whether, Plant or Mammal, Insect or Bird, a single awareness potential is available to guide their lives, the Splenic center.

The Splenic center is our oldest awareness center. It is our primary awareness and an inheritance from our animal beginnings. The Splenic center is our Immune System, our protection from disease. It is the body's Washing Machine. The Splenic center is the heart of our well-being and the key to our survival. Survival is what this awareness is all about. The Spleen is where fear resides. The Spleen is our only existential awareness for it only operates in the Now. This frequency of in the Now tells us clearly, that only by being in the Now, can we remain healthy and survive.

Each awareness center manifests through three streams of awareness. Each stream is an aspect of the centers awareness potential. The streams are always trying to find the Throat through Definition in order for the awareness to manifest.

Each stream has four components:

Fuel: All streams of awareness begin in a Pressure center. Head or Root

Potential: The beginning of the awareness process. Spleen, Ajna or Solar Plexus

Possibility: Completion of the awareness process. Spleen, Ajna or Solar Plexus

Expression: The Throat (Note: Instinct and Sensitivity "manifest" in the Heart)

The Stream of Taste

The Fuel: 58 The Joyous

The Potential: 18 Work on What Has been Spoilt

The Possibility: 48 The Well

The Expression: 16 Enthusiasm

The Stream of Intuition

The Fuel: 38 Opposition

The Potential: 28 The Preponderance of the Great

The Possibility: 57 The Gentle

The Expression: 20 Contemplation

The Stream of Instinct

The Fuel: 54 The Marrying Maiden

The Potential: 32 Duration

The Possibility: 44 Coming to Meet

The Expression: 26 The Taming Power of the Great

Stream of Taste

Fuel. Vitality or not

Potential. Awareness of what

Possibility. Awareness resource of vital information as pattern or not

Expression. Mechanic manifestation of pattern or not

Stream of Intuition

Fuel. Energy to Struggle or not

Potential. Awareness to struggle or not

Possibility. Awareness to struggle for clarity or not

Expression. Mechanic: Manifestation of clarity or not 'I know I am Now"

Stream of Instinct

Fuel. The Drive to Transform or not

Potential. Awareness of What can or cannot be transformed

Possibility. Transformation stored or not as Memory

Ego Mechanic. The strength or lack to apply Memory

The Mental Streams of Awareness have a unique circuitry. The Knowing stream moves directly down the middle from Head to Throat The sensing Stream and the Understanding Stream Cross in the Ajna. Once the potential exists the Stream crosses the Ajna to find its possibility and expression.

The Stream of Sensing (Stream crosses in Ajna)

The Fuel: 64 Before Completion

The Potential: 47 Oppression

The Possibility: 11 Peace

The Expression: 56 The Wanderer

The stream of Knowing

The Fuel: 61 Inner Truth

The Potential: 24 The Return

The Possibility: 43 Breakthrough

The Expression: 23 Splitting Apart

The Stream of Understanding (Stream crosses in Ajna)

The Fuel: 63 After Completion

The Potential: 4 Youthful Folly

The Possibility: 17 Following

The Expression: 62 Preponderance of the Small

Stream of Understanding

Fuel. Pressure of Suspicious patterns or not

Potential. Awareness to JUdge what is suspicious In the pattern or not

Possibility. Visualization of what pattern is Correct or not

Expression. Manifestation as verbal expression of Pattern or not

Stream of Knowing

Fuel. Pressure of the unknown or the Unknowable

Potential. Awareness to Struggle for Knowing or not

Possibility. Spontaneous Individual Knowing or not

Expression. Mechanical impUlse to impart Knowing or not

Stream of Sensing

Fuel. Pressure of Mental activity or not

Potential. Awareness to recognize what makes Sense or not

Possibility. Awareness to visualize a realization or not

Expression. Manifestation as Verbal Descrlption of realization or not

The Splenic center and its existential Now awareness was our only center of awareness for most of our history as a species. Rooted in the Nose and the Smell of fear, the Spleen is all about survival. Not the mind.

The mutation which led to mental awareness forever changed our relationship to the Natural world. The world of the moment and the spontaneous life would take a back seat to the power of the mind and its capacity to visualize. In our present cycle of our evolutionary process, it is the mind which we must come to grips with. Without the mind there are no questions to be answered. In a world dominated by the mind, the answers and absolute answers are essential. The frequency of the mental process operates over all time. A decision made mentally has a long shelf life and can be mulled over until death!

Where the Splenic is rooted in the Nose, the mind is rooted in the Eyes. The eyes look out at the world. The mind stores the images of the world and defies reality by easily being able to manipulate these images mentally. This process leads to attempts to turn the manipulated version of the world into a reality and the ensuing confusion and frustration. Maya only exists in the mind. There is no attempt here to be negative. The true purpose of the mind is its ultimate capacity to communicate. As humans, who live in the illusion of separateness, it is only through communication that we can work and live together and discover our common purpose.

Sometime between 85,000 and 90,000 years ago a mutation took place which altered the human Larynx and changed the direction of our evolution. Before that time humans like other Primates could drink and breath at the same time. The Larynx mutation ended this phenomena. The human Larynx "dropped" opening up the vocal chamber. No longer were humans limited to primal communication of grunts, sighs, groans, growls etc. With the dropping of the Larynx, we were able to form complex sound formulas, the beginning of our extraordinary language capability.

In the Beginning was the Word

Peace 11.4: The Teacher

The Mutation of the Larynx

Standstill 12.4: The Prophet

-to open the Human Voice in the wilderness

-to raise stagnant Humanity

The Pulse of Breathing /Eating

Standstill: The gate of Caution

The Emotional Streams of Awareness

The Stream of Feeling

The Fuel: 41 Decrease

The Potential: 30 The Clinging Fire

The Possibility: 36 The Darkening of the Light

The Expression: 35 Progress

The Stream of Emoting

The Fuel: 39 Obstruction

The Potential: 55 Abundance

The Possibility: 22 Grace

The Expression: 12 Standstill

The Stream of Sensitivity

The Fuel: 19 Approach

The Potential: 49 Revolution

The Possibility: 37 The Family

The Expression: 40 Deliverance

Stream of Feeling

Fuel. The Energy to Feel or not

Potential. Awareness to recognize a feeling or not

Possibility. Awareness and power to generate a feeling or not

Expression. Mechanical manifestation of a feeling or not

Stream of Emoting

Fuel. Energy to Provoke or not

Potential. Awareness of provocation or not

Possibility. Awareness to provoke Social Openness or not

Expression. Mechanic: Manifestation of openness or not 'Maybe'

Stream of Sensitivity

Fuel. Energy to need or not

Potential. Awareness of what is needed or not

Possibility. Awareness of who will or will not provide what is needed

Ego Mechanic. The will or lack of will to provide for the needy

Sometime between the birth of Buddha and Jesus, the Solar Plexus center began to evolve as our third awareness center. Illustrating the mechanics of possible emotional awareness is the beginning of a long process of discovering our spirit. Few human beings have ever experienced consistent emotional awareness. The Solar Plexus is still foremost a motor and a very powerful motor as everyone has experienced in their lives.

The path to discovering the spirit, lies in the frequency of this awareness. Unlike our ancient Splenic awareness that operates only in the now, or the mind and its frequency of operating over all time, the emotional system operates in a wave. It is only through understanding the nature of this wave frequency that emotional awareness is possible to experience.

Emotioan Wave Frequency

Potential Awareness

Energy Motor Function Unaware

Energy Motor Function Unaware

Potential Awareness

The Solar Plexus is a motor and its energy also operates in this wave frequency. We experience this energy wave as a cycle from Hope to Pain or vice versa. There can be no emotional stability until the law of this wave is recognized, accepted and ultimately transcended. Then and only then can the spirit of humanity actually begin to emerge. We have seen that the nature of an awarenesses' frequency leads to understanding that though each of these awarenesses has the same capacity to guide the life; the nature of the frequency determines access to the awareness potential.

The Spleen, our body Consciousness only operates in the Now. If you have a defined Spleen and can rely on its awareness, you must respond to it in the Now. It will not come back and remind you. It will only tell you once. If you have a defined Ajna, the frequency is over all time. Mental awareness can take a lifetime to achieve. When the Solar Plexus is defined, the wave of Hope to Pain energy is always operating. The key is Waiting out the Wave.

When you are emotionally excited and full of Hope, wait out the wave, before making any kind of decision. Hope is an energy, not an awareness. When you are emotionally depressed and full of Pain, wait out the wave, before making any decision. Pain is an energy not an awareness.

Over All Time

Ajna-Mind Consciousness

Spleen- Body Consciousness

In the Now

Solar Plexus- Spirit Consciousness

In the Wave

Awareness Frequencies

The G Center

The Self

The key to understanding the function of the G center and the nature of the Self is the Magnetic Monopole. A human being is endowed with two Crystals of Consciousness. The Personality Crystal, an aspect of the original Yang/Seed, which sits in the Head center and manifests who we think we are. The Design Crystal, an aspect of the original Yang/Seed, which sits in the Ajna center and manifests our bio-genetic Vehicle, our body. The Crystals operate in the Neutrino stream, uniquely filtering the "Program" and manifesting as our lives. When the Crystals of Consciousness are out of manifestation (not incarnated), they "Bundle." Personality Crystals orbit within the Earth's atmosphere and Design Crystals bundle within the Earth's mantle. When Design Crystals are out of manifestation, they have their Magnetic Monopole embedded in them.

Out of Manifestation

Personality Crystal Bundles Within the Atmosphere

Core

Mantle

Design Crystals with their Magnetic Monopoles Within the Mantle

Incarnated

Head Center

Personality Crystal

Ajna Center

Design Crystal

G Center

Prime Magnetic Monopole

When human Conception takes place (see Glossary, Conception Sequence) it is the Magnetic Monopole which directs the Design Crystal on its journey of fertilization. Once the Design Crystal is within the initiating fetal cell, its primary function is to "build" the body's circuitry, beginning first with the Ajna center where the Design Crystal will reside and then the other eight centers. Once the centers are established, the Magnetic Monopole separates from the Design Crystal and lodges itself in the G center. Once the Monopole is established in the G center, then the fetus has its "Driver," its direction and place and the process of building the body can begin in earnest.

The Magnetic Monopole (officially called Prime Magnetic Monopole. Since every living cell in the body has a Magnetic Monopole, the Prime Magnetic Monopole is the coordinator of the totality's (the body) direction) has two functions. First, it is a magnet which only attracts, a mono pole. It is in a sense our center of gravity holding us together and creating the illusion of our separateness. This attracting never abates and beyond our separateness, it pulls everything towards us. It is Love!

The Second function of the Prime Magnetic Monopole is direction. It is the "driver" of the Vehicle. Despite the illusion of stillness, our planet is whirling through space at incredible speed. Everything since the beginning has been in movement. The Magnetic Monopole connects us to our specific geometry. In Design Analysis, the life based on the Uranian cycle of 84 years, follows a line from the South Node to the North Node (see Nodes of the Moon). It is the magnetic Monopole which drives us along this line, what the ancients referred to as destiny. The Monopole functions like the arm of a streetcar connecting to and riding along our specific geometry. The Self, the G center is about Love and Direction.

Prime Magnetic Monopole

Function #1

Attraction: Human Illusion of Separateness

Attraction as Love: Pulling everything towards us

Geometry [Destiny]

South Node

North Node

Function #2

Direction: The Driver

"If you're in the wrong place, you're with the wrong people"

In Design Analysis what is defined is reliable and what is undefined is unreliable and subject to conditioning. Individuals with a defined Self, the G, always have a Self, a direction which they can rely on. Individuals with an undefined Self, do not have a fixed direction nor a fixed expression of Self to rely on. In the so-called New Age, there is tremendous emphasis placed on knowing your "true self." For the individual with an undefined Self this is neither possible nor fair. In Design it is clear that we all have unique purposes in our form and direction. The individual with the defined Self is limited to a fixed, rigid expression of Self and is not open to other possible expressions of the Self or direction. The undefined Self has enormous potential to experience the vast possibilities of Self-expression. Such a person may have many different kinds of friends, none of whom could get along with each other, but all of whom can get along with the individual with the undefined Self. They are absorbers, mirrors of the Selves in others. It has the potential of being a great gift.

Remember that undefined centers are not broken, empty or need to be fixed. They are like "gas bottles" with the gas under pressure inside and they have no capacity to release that pressure themselves. The release comes from connecting to others or the Program. The undefined Self is excited by a new relationship and accepts an invitation to dinner. When they walk into the restaurant, if they don't like the environment, it is not the place, it is who they are with. They are with the wrong people.

The G Center: The Sphinx and the Vessel

The G Center has eight gates. These gates form four oppositions in the Zodiac creating two crosses. Each of the eight arms of these two crosses are exactly 45° of arc apart.

In the Book of Changes, the I'Ching, the 64 Hexagrams are divided into Eight (8) Houses. Each House is made up of 8 Hexagrams each of which has the same trigram base. A Hexagram is made up of 6 lines divided into 2 trigrams.

Upper Trigram

Hexagram Number

Lower Trigram

A Single Line

G Center Gate

Hexagram House Common Lower Trigram

Each of the eight gates of the G center are the leading hexagrams of each of the eight houses and determine the structure of the base trigram throughout the house. Since the Prime Magnetic Monopole has a dual function of both Love and Direction, these are manifested through the two great crosses.

The Cross of the Sphinx: Direction

7 The Army: The Role of the Self in interaction

1 The Creative: Individual expression of the Self

13 Fellowship of Man: The Openness of the Self in interaction

2 The Receptive: The Direction of the Self

The Cross of the Vessel: Love

25 Innocence: The Spirit of the Self - Universal Love

46 Pushing Upward: The Determination of the Self - Love of the Body

15 Modesty: The Rhythm of the Self - Love of Humanity

10 Treading: The Behavior of the Self - The Nature of Being