Part Two

Rave Body Graph Circuitry

Channels, Circuit Groups and Circuits

The Channels

The thirty-six (36) channels of the Rave Body Graph are rooted on the tradition of the Zohar I Kabbalah and the "Tree of Life." Life, as we know it, without the presence of these channels could not exist. In the Design of Inanimate objects (see Supplement) without the presence of a complete channel, biological life cannot exist. The channels are more than just connective agents. In modern scientific terms, the channels are instruments of a quantum process.

Each gate has its own unique nature. Undefined, this nature is fixed until Definition takes place. The moment of Definition transforms the separate and unique natures into more than a fusion but an entirely unique "third" nature. The channel, like the mathematical law that the whole is always greater than the sum of its parts, is always more than the separate meaning of its gates.

Rave Body Graph circuitry is the channels and their relationships to each other. Before beginning our introduction to the circuit groups and circuits, the following pages list and illustrate the 36 channels of the Rave Body Graph.

64/41. Channel of Abstraction. Mental Activity and Clarity

11/62. Channel of Acceptance. Organizational Being

15/5. Channel of Rythm. Being in the Flow

42/53. Channel of Maturation. Balanced Development. Cyclic

61/24. Channel of Awareness. The Thinker

43/23. Channel of Structuring. Individuality

2/14. Channel of the Beat. Keeper of Keys

3/60. Channel of Mutation. Initiation/Fluctuation. Pulse

63/4. Channel of Logic. Mental Ease and Doubt

11/56. Channel of Curiosity. The Seeker

33/13. Channel of the Prodigal. The Witness

46/29. Channel of Dicovery. Succeeding/Failing

9/52. Channel of Concentration. Determined. Focused

16/48. Wavelength. Talent

20/57. Brainwave. Penetrating Awareness

28/38. Channel of Struggle. Stubbornness

18/58. Channel of Judgment. Insatiability

32/54. Channel of Transformation. Being Driven

35/36. Channel of Transitoriness. 'Jack of All Trades'

40/37. Channel of Community. A Part Seeking the Whole

55/39. Channel of Emoting. Moodiness

30/41. Channel of Recognition. Focused Feelings

49/19. Channel of Synthesis. Sensitivity

20/10. Channel of Awakening. Commitment

10/34. Channel of Exploration. Following. Convictions

10/51. Channel of Perfected Form. Survival

25/51. Channel of Initiation. Need to be first

59/6. Channel of Mating. Reproduction

50/27. Channel of Preservation. Custodianship

57/34. The Channel of Power. The Archetype

Channel Function Relationships

The channels have a natural relationship to each other through the circuits, but there is also special relationships between channels that are not restricted to the same circuitry. These are channels which have similar functions, i.e. the three Mystical channels or the three Social channels.

The Two Health Channels. Thyroid/Spleen

20/57. Brainwave. Penetrating Awareness

16/48. Wavelength. Talent

The Three Energy Formats

42/53. Channel of Maturation. Balanced Development. Cyclic

3/60. Channel of Mutation. Initiation/Fluctuation. Pulse

9/52. Channel of Concentration. Determination. Focused

The Three Social Channels

12/22. Channel of Openness. Social Being

59/6. Channel of Mating. Reproduction

40/37. Channel of Community. A Part Seeking. the Whole

The Three Mystical Channels

20/10. Channel of Awakening. Commitment

25/51. Channel of Initiation. Need to be first

49/19. Channel of Synthesis. Sensitivity

The Rave Circuits

Circuit Groups

The nine centers are all connected to each other through the channels. These channels are rooted in the Tree of Life from the Zohar/Kabbalist tradition. It is essential to understand that these channels are transforming agents in and of themselves. When an energy is released from a center through a gate, that information has a certain value. When the Harmonic gate (the gate at the other end of the channel) is activated, it also releases information that has a certain value. When the energies meet their individual qualities are fused and transformed. Thus, each gate has a meaning and this meaning is its potential only, waiting for transformation through an activated channel.

The channels are the key to understanding how the centers interact. Definition forges this link between the centers activating their potential. These channels which have such great significance in Design, do not stand alone. Each channel has a relationship to a series of channels forming a circuit It is the circuit which determines the overall nature of its contributing channels.

Circuit. Channels 5. The Ego Circuit

The circuits are extremely important and are a major factor in how we connect to others. In the example above, if an individual has the channel of Materialism defined, 21/45 and meets an individual with Definition in the Channel of Community, 37/40, they will have a natural relationship to each other. Despite having Definition in different channels, these channels being part of the same circuit have a specific and direct relationship to each other. When you discover which circuit or circuits dominate in your Design, it clearly illustrates which connections are necessary for you to fulfill the potential of the circuit(s). There is no completion of a process unless the full circuit has been activated. Here is another example of how humanity is conditioned from the beginning to seek out others. Rarely, does an individual in their own Design complete a circuit (the exception being the minor circuits, Defense and Centering).

One of the maxims of Design is, "Who you are is Where you are." If a certain circuit dominates in your Design and you are with people who do not contribute to that circuitry, you will be conditioned away from your natural state and potential.

There are seven different circuitries; six circuits and the Integration channels. The six circuits make up three circuit groups.

The Individual Circuit Group: The Knowing circuit, The Centering circuit.

The Collective Circuit Group: The Understanding circuit, The Sensing circuit.

The Tribal Circuit Group: The Ego circuit, The Defense circuit.

Individual Circuit Group. Keynote: Empowement. Centering Circuit. Knowing Circuit.

Collective Circuit Group. Keynote: Sharing. Sensing Circuit. Understanding Circuit.

Tribal Circuit Group. Keynote: Support. Defense Circuit. Ego Circuit

The circuit groups are very different in the way they function. The names, Individual, collective and tribal, cover the spectrum of human interaction.

The individual is a source of Mutation. The "outsider," whose unique path may be a contribution to others. The keynote of this group is Empowerment. When individuals connect to each other through this circuitry, they empower each others individuality, while remaining resolutely themselves in the process.

The collective being is a source of "reflection" and "projection." The Understanding circuit, projects its patterns into the future in order to lead and the Sensing circuit reflects on the past in order to remember. The keynote of this group is Sharing. When people connect to each other through this circuitry, they share their projections and reflections. This is an inherently social group.

The tribal being is the foundation of our communities, our sexuality and our civilization. Tribal connections are rooted in the keynote of Support. Coming together through tribal circuitry demands individual sacrifice.

The Rave Circuits

The Integration Channels

51/34. The Channel of Power

34/20. The Channel of Charisma

51/10. The Channel of Perfected Form

10/20. The Channel of Awakening

When you examine the six Rave circuits, you will notice that there are four channels which are "missing," these are the Integration channels. It is the most complex connective field in Design, for unlike the other channels, which are a direct connection between tWo centers through two gates, the Integration channels interconnect four centers through four gates. Out of this structure comes the possibility of six different channels. Two of these channels, 20/57 The Channel of Penetrating Awareness and 34/10 the Channel of Exploration belong to the Knowing and Centering circuits respectively. The remaining four, the Integration channels do not belong to any circuit. Since it is through the circuits that we connect to each other, these channels are resolutely individual and separate.

Individuation

The Descent into Form

When looking at the centers of awareness, we saw that the Splenic awareness was our first awareness, an existential alertness to guarantee our well being. Shared with all other forms of life, this was the dominant awareness in our long evolutionary process. Sometime around 4.2 million years ago, when our earliest "humanlike" ancestors began to walk erect, the process of individuation began. The Design of these early "Hominids" was the Integration channels.

There is a great deal of spiritual posturing and longing for "oneness." Oneness is and has always been a fact. Our point in the evolutionary process is about diversity and separation and the mastery of self-awareness in form. This process is on-going and there is a lot of work to be done before there is any change.

Power. The Archetype

Perfected Form. Survival

Charisma. Awareness as Deeds

Awakening. The Now

The process of individuation begins with the channel of Power 57 / 34. This channel is the Design of the archetype. So often individuals who have this Definition ask, ''What kind of archetype am I 1" The answer is, humanl This is the power to individuate as a human being. It is the empowerment of human intuition, the Splenic awareness possibility of the 57th gate: The Gentle. When the intuition is defined to the Self, Perfected Form results. If you walk through an equatorial jungle, dressed in bright colors and carrying a "ghetto blaster' at full volume,your chances of Survival are slim. Perfection in this sense is to be understood as the capacity to Survive. The 10th gate: Treading is the gate of the Behavior of the Self. When behavior is linked to intuition survival of the individual is guaranteed.

The channel of Charisma 34/ 20 is a Design where thoughts must become deeds. This channel when not connected by Definition to one of the awareness centers (thoughts) can be a chaotic force where the power to manifest in the now is not guided by an awareness. In the case of individuation, these thoughts which must become deeds are rooted in the intuition. Here, the ideal emerges, where the individual archetype can then manifest in the Now. The Sacral is a motor, giving the individual the power to act on their intuition in the Now.

Unperfected Individuation In the Now

Awareness in the Now Non-Active Verbal Only

Individuation

The channel of Awakening 20/10 is a Design of Awakening to higher principles. The perfection of the Self in the Now, individuation. The Behavior(10), perfected through intuition(57), empowered(34) and manifested existentially(20).

The Rave Circuits

The six Rave circuits are grouped as well by type. There are the three major circuits, Knowing, Sensing and Understanding. These are the only circuits which are rooted directly in an energy format. There are two minor circuits, Centering and Defense The minor circuits can be added to any of the other four circuits and will condition how they function. The minor circuits each have a natural circuit partner. Centering is part of the individual circuit group and when added to the Knowing circuit brings its initiating centering capacity to the individual process. The Defense circuit, the circuit of our sexuality is part of the tribal circuit group, and through its sexual fecundity brings the reproductive and nurturing process to the tribal Ego circuit. Centering will bring an individual quality to any other circuit and Defense will bring the tribal quality. Neither major or minor; the Ego circuit stands alone. Below the major circuits.

Sensing. Abstract Format: Cydic

Knowing. Individual Format: Pulse

Understanding. Logical Format: Focused

The Minor Circuits

Centering. Individual Initiation

Defense. Tribal Sexuality

The Material Circuit

The Rave Circuits

[The Knowing Circuit] Circuit Group: Individual. Keynote: Empowerment

[Awareness/ Stream ] Splenic: Intuition. Ajna: Knowing. Solar Plexus: Emoting

[Motors] Sacral Root Solar Plexus

[Format] Mutation

[Tantra] Direction

[Voices] I Am: 20. I Know: 23. I Can: 8. I Act: 12

The Knowing circuit is by far the most complex of all the circuits. It is the only circuit which includes all three areas of awareness and the most number of channels.

61/24 The Channel of Awareness-A design of a Thinker

43/23 The Channel of Structuring-A design of Individuality (from Genius to Freak)

8/1 The Channel of Inspiration- A design of a Creative Role Model

2/14 The Channel of the Beat-A design of being a Keeper of Keys

3/60 The Channel of Mutation-A design of Energy which Fluctuates and Initiates

39/55 The Channel of Emoting-A design of Moodiness

12/22 The Channel of Openness-A design of a Social Being

38/28 The Channel of Struggle-A design of Stubbornness

57/20 The Brainwave-A design of Penetrating Awareness

The individual circuit group is rooted in the Integration gates. The Knowing and Centering circuits·are evolved individual circuits, no longer focused exclusively on independent survival. Where the Integration channels are outside of connective circuitry, Knowing and Centering are not. When connections are made within this circuitry, empowerment takes place.

The Knowing circuit is conditioned by its Format (see Glossary Energy Format), Mutation. The Knowing circuit is the mutative force. The Knower is responsible for our direction in life and rather than independent survival, its role is to be an individual example for the survival of the totality. The great difficulty of the knower is to find acceptance and recognition. This is the circuit of the Stranger and the Outsider.

The Rave Circuits

[The Centering Circuit] Circuit Group: Individual. Keynote: Empowerment

[Motors]. Sacral Heart

The Centering circuit 'is the only circuit which has no potential for awareness. It is a circuit whose functions are entirely mechanical. Centering is a minor circuit, bringing its influence of individuality. It is both mechanical and very powerful; out of three centers, two are motors.

34/10 The Channel ofExploration- A design of following one's Convictions.

51/25 The Channel of Initiation- A design of needing to be First.

The Centering circuit is the only circuit whose focus is the G center. The.two G gates of the circuit are part of the Cross of the Vessel. It is the circuit of Behavior and conditions how any other circuitry it is connected to, will act. The 10/34 brings the power to follow one's convictions and to behave accordingly, whether the actions are collective, tribal or individual.

The Channel of Initiation is one of the three Mystical channels. It is the channel of "leaping into the void" and brings mechanical competitiveness to whatever it connects to. It is through Centering that the thrill and wonder of being is always a potential. To have the power (34) to act according to one's nature (10) and forge ahead with courage (51) . challenges. and defines the "spirit of the Self' (25). Whether the results are folly or initiation, any life is richer for the experience.

The Rave Circuits

[The Understanding Circuit] Circuit Group: Collective. Keynote: Sharing

[Awareness/Stream] Splenic: Taste. Ajna: Understanding

[Motors] Root Sacral

[Format] Concentration

[Tantra] Rythm

[Voices] I Experiment: 16. I Think: 62. I Lead: 31

In Design, what is not in the picture is just as significant as what is in the picture. In the image above of the Understanding circuit, there is no Heart center or Solar Plexus center. Understanding is the circuit of Logic, where ego (Heart) and emotions (Solar Plexus) clearly and graphically, do not have a place.

63/4 The Channel of Logic-A design of Mental Ease mixed with Doubt

17/62 The Channel of Acceptance-A design of an Organizational Being

31/7 The Channel of the "Alpha"-A design of Leadership (for good or bad)

15/5 The Channel of Rhythm-A design of Being in the Flow

9/52 The Channel of Concentration-A design of Determination

58/18 The Channel of Judgment-A design of Insatiability

48/16 The Wavelength-A design of Talent

Like the universality of Splenic awareness in all other forms of life, the channel of Rhythm 15 / 5 is present in all other forms down to the Single cell. Through the presence of this channel, Understanding through Logic is a universal principle and in human terms the only common ground. The Format of this circuit is to be focused and concentrated. This is the circuitry of Patterns, and through Opinion(17), Correction(18) and Experimentation(16), a pattern is tested. Once the Formula(4) underlying the pattern has been verified, then this reliable pattern (Fact) can be projected into the future. The ultimate role of the Understanding circuit is to Lead.

[The Sensing Circuit] Circuit Group: Collective. Keynote: Sharing

[Awareness / Stream] Ajna: Sensing. Solar Plexus: Feeling

[Motors] Root Sacral Solar Plexus

[Format] Maturation

[Tantra] Discovery

[Voices] I Remember: 33. I Believe: 56. I Feel: 35

The Sensing circuit is perhaps the most difficult of all circuitry. In the image above, it is clear that there is no Splenic center in this circuit. The Spleen is our center of well being, the bodies' ''washing machine" . The Sensing process always runs the risk of being vulnerable and without awareness, potentially unhealthy.

64/47 The Channel of Abstraction-A design of Mental Activity mixed with Clarity

11/56 The Channel of Curiosity- A design of a Seeker

33/13 The Channel of the Prodigal- A design of a Witness

46/29 The Channel of Discovery- A design of Succeeding where others Fail

42 / 53 The Channel of Maturation- A design of Balanced Development

30 /41 The Channel of Recognition- A design of Focused Energy (feelings)

35/ 36 The Channel of Transitoriness- A design of a "Jack of all Trades"

The difficulty inherent in this circuit is in its lack of relative stability. The Sensing Format of Maturation is a cyclical energy moving from beginnings to ends and over again in a spiral throughout the life. Change through Crisis (35136) is its theme. The Sensing circuit is the collective mirror of the Understanding circuit and its logic. Rather.than trying to establish a pattern for the future, the Abstract process is about reflection on the past. This is the great experiential circuit with its profound potential to Discover (46/29). It is only in surrender during a process, that true reflection and discovery is possible at the end of the process. The power of the emotional Wave dominates this circuit. The Sensing process at an energy level is always manifesting a Hope / Pain cycle. There is no awareness possible until one has waited out the Wave. The same holds true for the Sensing circuit in general.

The Rave Circuits

[The Ego Circuit] Circuit Group: Tribal. Keynote: Support

[Awareness / Stream] Splenic: Instind. Solar Plexus: Sensitivity

[Motors] Root Solar Plexus Heart

[Voice] I Have: 45

Neither a major, nor a minor circuit, the Ego Circuit has a disproportionate Impact on Human Life. It Is the foundation upon which our way of Ufe Is structured and maintained. Despite the philosophical impact of the Collective Circuits, it is the Tribe and its laws which are still the bedrock of human societies. This is the Circuit of the Mundane Plane, the material world. It is not about our direction or love ( no G Center) and it is not Mental. It is focused exclusively on maintaining the well Being and growth oft he Tribe.

54/ 32 The Channel of Transformation- A design of being Driven

44/26 The Channel of Surrender- A design of a Transmitter

19 / 49 The Channei of Synthesis- A design of being Sensitive

37/40 The Channel of Community- A design of a Part seeking the Whole

21/45 The Money Line- A design of being a Materialist

The Ego Circuit is unusual in many ways. Unlike the major circuits, the Streams of Awareness do not find their expression in the Throat, but in the Heart. It is the Ego, its strength (Instinct) and communal Will (Sensitivity) which drives this Circuit Despite what may appear to be a wholly mundane circuitry, Of the three Mystical Channels, Awakening (20 / 10), Initiation (25 / 51) and Synthesis (19 / 49), it is only Synthesis which is potentiaUy aware!

The Tribe will always rule. Whatever the potential of Humanity may be. it is in the Tribe that the law is established. Transform the tribe and you transform humanity.

The Rave Circuits

[The Defense Circuit] Circuit Group: Tribal. Keynote: Support

[Awareness] Splenic: Body Consciousness. Solar Plexus: Spirit

[Motors] Root Solar Plexus

[Voice] Sacral Sounds

The Defense circuit is one of the two minor circuits. These minor circuits have the power to condition any other circuit. The Centering circuit brings individual conditioning and the Defense circuit brings tribal conditioning. The Defense circuit despite its size with only four gates, has a disproportionate impact. It is the circuit of our sexuality.

59/6 The Channel of Mating- A design focused on Reproduction

27/50 The Channel of Preservation- A design of Custodianship

The Sacral center is so often confused with sexuality. The center in general is about fertile power. Only the two gates of the Sacral in the Defense circuit are purely sexual. The 59th gate: Dispersion is the spectrum of our sexual roles and it is the power to bind intimately to reproduce. From the point of view of our genetics, it is the act of reproduction that is the main goal in life, so that the species can continue. The 27th gate: Nourishment is the spectrum of our compassion and it is this power to £!!! that ensures that what is produced (children) out of sexual bonding can be nurtured to maturity so that they too can continue the process of reproduction.

When you bring together the Defense and Ego circuits, what emerges is the basis of the human life process. There is no survival for the young, without the protection and nourishment of the community (shelter, food, education, etc). The material plane exists only to service these demands.

It may be interesting to note, that since the Law of the Tribe (50) is so deeply connected to our sexual practices, when sexual revolutions take place, it is always a sign that tribal law is disintegrating. The sexual revolution of the 60's and the subsequent disintegration of the nuclear family is such an example.