It's always interesting how money draws a crowd. You know, I do the most profound course on earth and one and a half people show up. And I do a course on money and wow, right away. I hope by the end of these three days you get the joke of that, but we'll see. The.

nature of this money course as it was outlined is that I'm going to take you through the 64 archetypal themes of making money. The 64 archetypal themes of what are material archetypes, unique material archetypes. But before I can go into a long story about running around the wheel and telling you about all the themes that are there in terms of the material, I want to be able to put that into context for you. And I want to put it into a context that is both profound and funny. Both profound and funny.

Looks like his head center's been damaged and bandaged. Poor thing. I feel better that way. Okay.

I want you to imagine something for a moment. I want you to just sort of go along with me in this. I want you to take a look at this and imagine that what you're looking at is that you're looking at an organizational chart. You're actually looking at the design of let's say a business, but in the most broad sense of the metaphor. So you're looking at a design of an organization and basically in looking at that design, what we're looking at is not the whole business.

What we're looking at is how the business and where the business makes money. And if you're looking at this whole chart about how the business makes money, the thing to recognize, even the spirits want to make money.

You have to recognize that each of the centers, what they really represent in this context is each of them is a profit center. Each of them is a profit center.

So when you're looking at this organism, what you're looking at is you're looking at nine profit centers. Okay. So by the time after the mid break today, when I start going through the gates, okay, we're going to be able to discuss the gates because I'm going to go through the gates, not through the wheel,,.

not through their numbers, but I'm going to go through the gates according to center so that we can see each of these profit centers and then we can see the profit centers.

So you have to recognize that each of these profit centers and the themes of the profit centers.

All right. Now, let's talk about something really funny.

Okay. Really funny.

Think about your design. When you're looking at your design, what you're looking at is that you're looking at differentiation imprinting. Remember that. Very important. What is it that differentiates you? Cloning. Every cell in your body has all the information of all of you.

The thing that makes a muscle cell different than a blood cell is that it's imprinted to do one function even though it carries all the other information. So when you're looking at your body graph, you're looking at your differentiated imprinting out of the matrix of all of what is the chemistry of life.

It is your specific imprinting. It's what makes you different. It's what makes you unique.

However, however, you have to recognize that every single open center and every single open gate and every single open channel is rooted in receptors within you to that.

In other words, what I call the shadow or the not self. In other words, we as an entity are made up of two things.

We're made up of a specific imprinting and that specific imprinting is imprinted out of, if you will, a very complex matrix in which we have receptors to everything else. So when you have a gate that's open, basically what you have is a receptor. And that receptor is not only attracted to what's on the other side, but it pulls the other side to it because it's the nature of our geometry.

In other words, whatever is open in you is going to meet what activates it. And whatever is open in you means that that is your shadow's imprinting.

In other words, where your shadow is designed to be attractive. Remember everything I've taught you about genetics. Everything about genetics is rooted in the fact that we are designed to be attracted to what is different.

And of course, there lies our dilemma.

We are attracted to the realm of the not self.

Now the thing to recognize is that that is not a one-way street. What we are attracted to, we meet. And what we meet is attracted and interesting for us and we take from that meeting something.

See, look, your differentiated imprint doesn't know how to make money. Doesn't need to know how to make money. Isn't fucking interested in making money.

You see, when you live the true differentiated self, everything is there. There's nothing to look for. It's very different. It's not about being attracted to it.

It simply happens to be in the environment. And unless you're awake, you don't appreciate that. Okay, and we do not live in an awake world.

We live in a world of the not self. What needs to make money is the not self.

What needs to demonstrate that it is superior to its inadequacies is the not self. What is important in order to demonstrate that one is of value, it's the not self, everything about the.

material life as we live it, that is the material life in which 500 beings earn as much money in one year as 2 billion on this planet. Now, this is the dysfunction of the not self. Nobody needs to earn a million dollars a month.

Nobody, nobody, nobody. That is nobody in terms of the true self.

Oh, but the not self? Yes, please, please, please.

So the first thing I want you to understand is something very simple.

You make money out of the not self.

You make money through the not self.

That it is the not self that brings material benefit to you. This is one of the great jokes of money courses. You know, many of you are long time students of mine.

You know how resistant I've been to teaching courses about money.

You know, because it wasn't time people would not have understood what this really means. You see, the way in which we have material anxiety in this life is all rooted on the fact that it's all based on the not self.

It's all illusion. It's all based on the not self. How much suffering comes on the material plane. It's extraordinary. But then again, it's only a simple mirror of the pain of what life is itself.

Anyway, okay.

So look, we have nine profit centers.

And we're only going to see them as profit centers because we're going to look at nine open centers.

Right? Okay. Now look, let's have some fun with numbers. Think about it this way. You're running the company and you're looking at the figures.

And you're looking at the various departments that you have that are your nine profit centers.

And,.

you really want to see, you know, which one is the one that's really holding the company together. Which one is really doing well. What's it all about? Now let's take a look. Let's start with the head center. 29% of humanity have the head center defined.

29% of humanity have the head center defined.

29%.

That means 71% of humanity, 4.3 billion.

people. Please get the number. 4.3 billion people.

have an open.

head center. Think about that. Now remember, we know the strategy of the open head center is that you're always trying to answer questions,,

that.

aren't important to you. And that your mind, your mental plane, which is going to take the not-self and propagandize it, the mind is going to say, no darling, I can't make love to you, I'm trying to.

figure out this great question. No, I can't take that job right now, I'm trying to.

figure out this great question. No, I can't do this because I'm trying to.

figure out this great question. Right? Okay. Now think about this. Think about the.

department of the head center. What do we sell in the head center? Inspiration. Right, we sell inspiration. And what is.

the biggest business on.

earth? The selling,,

of inspiration. Nothing.

like it. Nothing like it. You go down to the throat center, 71%.

defined, 29% of humanity undefined. You try to teach.

people how to get.

attention. It's a tough business. You know, own.

a media company, find.

out.

You.

know,.

tough business. One of the toughest businesses on the planet is getting attention way down here at the.

bottom of the profit center. But oh boy, when we start up here at the.

head center, we're selling inspiration. We're going to.

give you,.

what you need. We are. We are. We're going to show you the past, offer you.

the future, ponder the unknowables. You.

know, this.

is what sells. Inspiration sells. And why? 79% of humanity is not self and is wandering.

around trying to find inspiration. And trying,,

to do something,,

with it. Quit.

your job. Think about this. You know? Forget about that. Here's something really inspiring,,

for you. This head center. You know, everything about the.

mechanics is simple and obvious. There.

are two main profit centers. There.

are two basic profit centers. And you can see the.

mechanically what the obvious is. We're dealing with the head center and we're.

dealing with the heart center. The head.

center only has three gates. The heart.

center only has four gates. They are by far the least accessible of the centers and therefore in terms of statistics, they are.

the least defined and fixed. And so what that means is that when you're dealing with the heart center,,

and you're dealing with the ego, 65% of humanity, you know, 3.8 billion people, 65% of humanity has an undefined ego. What's the not self strategy of.

the undefined ego? That the undefined ego has something to.

prove. And so the mind is making decisions based on, I'm.

going to do this because I can prove myself. I'm.

going to do that because I can prove.

myself. In the meantime, they're missing out on the idea of self-improvement. I'm going to do that because I can prove myself. In.

the meantime, they're missing their whole life. Yet.

at the same time, we can see that one,,

of.

the biggest profit centers on the planet is helping people prove themselves. Training them, guiding them, motivating them, massaging them. On and on and on and on and,,

on. And we well know in design the nature of the ego and its materialness, how deeply rooted it.

is,,

to the material maintenance of the community, of the tribe. So when you're dealing with these two centers, the seven gates of those centers, these are.

primary material gates. Primary. Oh, it's so funny the way things work. It really is. You see, look, if I teach you what this is, you realize,.

what I'm doing. It's.

really insane. I'm.

saying to you, look, you.

can make money by keeping everybody not self. You.

know why I didn't want to teach this course? You.

know, it's insane. It really.

is. But then again, I'm retired. I can afford,,

to be a little insane.

now. But you really have to see the joke in that. It's a terrible joke, right? It says, look,,.

I'm going to make a fortune.

You stay dumb. You know? Just stay stupid, because if you stay.

stupid, I'm going to make.

a lot,,

of money off of you. I mean, it's a great joke. If I really had to teach you what true.

business looked like, I mean, if the.

true business looked like a joke, I mean, if the true self, maybe.

one day I'd do that, it would really be hilarious. You know, because it's something else entirely. Then we're dealing with Pentaland, and Pentaland is another land. But anyway, okay. Remember that this course is about your individual potential, ultimately. I have to give you the background.

first, but to really see,,

that. Okay, so we can see very clearly that the open head center, the open ego center,,

that they represent, deep potential, I sell inspiration.

I'm an open head center. I sell inspiration. You know, I sell the question. You know,,.

it's part of my material trip. It's part of what makes me successful materially. If you.

look at my design, you're not looking at somebody who's here to.

make money. I mean, if I'm living.

out.

my individual whatever, I'm.

just living out my.

personal potential. I'm not living out.

my individual whatever. I'm just killing and eating. I don't have a job, you know? I mean, you really have to see,,

that when you look at your design, when you actually.

look at your design, if you're truly just living out your design, and remember, we're not here to do that. We're here to live our design and embrace.

the shadow. And it's through the shadow we maintain.

our life. And until the critical mass of this planet changes, there is no embarrassment in making money.

from.

the not-self. If, in fact, what you're offering can transform them. But you know, the reality is that we're never going to get rid of them,,

on,.

this planet. There's always going to be these ways, these specific ways, on the material plane that we.

live in to recognize where we can.

have impact and effect. Okay. Now, you notice I have a defined ego. I don't teach anybody that they have something to.

prove. You know? That's not, that wouldn't sell. You know, it wouldn't sell. The other things that I have that are open, they sell. Okay. So, let's move through here.

We can see right away,,,

and we'll focus on this when we go through the line level, we'll see that in terms of the head and the ego, they dominate. There's no.

question about,,

that. So those two areas become very significant. They become.

very important to deal with. The middle ground is the solar plex and the ajna. Now, remember something. If you're looking at the solar.

plex,.

half of humanity is undefined emotionally, and we know that the strategy of the open.

solar.

plex center is that the open solar plex center avoids confrontation and truth. So.

the.

mind representing that not-self, the decisions.

will be based on avoiding confrontation and truth. I don't want to get into that because I don't.

want,,

to get into that. And away they go.

into something else. The thing to recognize, of course, is,,

that dealing with.

confrontation and finding truth is something really extraordinary. And not only that, but confrontation that brings pleasure,,.

there's a sexual center, you know, confrontation that brings pleasure in terms of food, you know, there's all kinds of ways through the solar plex center,,

in which bringing people together, bringing people together so that truth can come out, you know, this is part of the way in,,

which money is made in that sense. The.

material plane works out of the emotional system. You know, my thing is that this is one of my great selling points. I can reach half,,

of humanity with that. You know,.

half of humanity, I can reach them and I can say, hey, look, you really need to confront the truth of what,.

you.

are.

You.

know, that's the selling point. And if you confront the truth of who you are, you will find.

the pleasure of what it is to be you. And you'll eat in a more healthy way and.

your sex life will be better,,

and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And all of that is part of my pitch. You.

know? And you emotional people bought into it. Do,.

you know what I mean? You really have to see it's very simple the way that it works. It's not contrived. This is the natural way,,

in which,.

we operate. And you.

see, if you're being conditioned by your not-self, you will never, ever, ever get to make the money that's possible in the not-self realm. It's.

only when you're wise about the not-self, it's only when you're following your own clear authority that,.

you can, in your wisdom, recognize how to.

make.

money out of that. I mean, remember, this is one of the most important things about an open center, is that the moment that you get.

past it controlling your decision-making, which means that,.

you don't let your mind make decisions for you anymore, that's the.

moment that these open centers become a.

place,,

of wisdom. Now, that's not the only thing that's important.

That's the moment that these open centers become a place of wisdom. Now, that wisdom translates into many things. It's not simply about being able to understand what an emotional wave is as,.

it comes into your body, recognizing it's not yours, becoming more subtle in recognizing the different kinds of emotions that you take in, but eventually recognizing what emotional people need. I mean, you know what? The work I've done with emotional beings, with the wave, with that whole process, with trying to bring clarity and understanding.

into the emotional being's life so they recognize what clarity is, they recognize,.

how their awareness works. You know, that's a great selling point. Do you know what I.

mean? It comes out of.

the wisdom, it comes out of the open center. Okay, so half of humanity is open to the solar plex market as a profit center. Here, beside it, the ajna. And it's interesting to note that it's easier to.

sell inspiration than it is to sell.

concepts. You know,.

inspiration is almost a dime a dozen. You know, so we've got this vast, I mean, look at modern marketing. It's all trying to inspire the buyer. You know, it's all about, you know, we're doing the same thing, we're trying to inspire people, you.

know, human design is good for you, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. You know, but when you're trying to.

sell a concept, whoa, there's a majority that doesn't.

want it. You know, 49% of humanity, still a lot of people,,,

and,.

we're.

still.

talking about over 3 billion people. You know, 49% of humanity is open to concept. Now, when you think about that, this is basically intellectual.

training systems. You know, people with open minds are natural fodder to be seduced into all kinds,,

of.

educational.

training,,.

you know, endless, endless, endless, endless,.

endless, all that stuff. And of course, there are those.

who directly benefit by being.

able to provide all of that. The selling of concepts, you know, again, the moment we're changing into a more.

complex center, it's like we go into the solar plex center, we see there's seven very distinct ways, you know,,,

in which the solar plex as a profit center operates. You know, so.

each center that we're going to look at,,.

there are different dynamics, obviously, that are at work. When you're dealing with the Ajna, you're dealing with six in that sense.

So we're dealing with different sub-themes, and those.

sub-themes are most importantly read through circuitry and circuit keynotes,,,

because circuit keynotes tell you something.

about the nature of the thematic. You know, the individual circuitry empowers.

the other. So this is a specific kind of product or service. It's an empowering product or service. You know, when you're dealing with.

the collective, you're dealing,,

with sharing. You know, this is the kind of thing that bonds communities together by having shared values, shared products, shared services, shared this, shared that. You know, and when you're dealing with tribal circuitry,,.

you're dealing with support, and so much of what is now very successful in the world, what we're a part of.

the circuitry, is the support of.

the tribal community. So what we're doing in the world,,.

what we're a part of the so-called self-help industry, all,,

of those kinds of things, the financial industry, the banking, all of that is.

built into the tribal and the support themes, something we'll return to, because those simple keynotes are very.

important to keep in mind when we're going to look at the gates within the centers, because it allows us to see how the profit center differentiates.

through different themes. So for example, the 61 of empowerment, you know, and.

the two 63, 64, which are collective and sharing, you can see that inspiration is not supportive. You know, it's not supportive at all. Either are concepts. They're not supportive. And you know, you're going to have problems if,.

you're trying to inspire people, you know, that what you're going to offer them is really supportive. You know, they don't buy that. They'll buy what you can sell them. You know, they.

won't buy that. Okay. Then we.

begin, you know, again, this is just drawn for you so that,.

you can see this movement going down the scaling of the.

statistics. We come to the splenic center. Now this is very important in terms of the so-called healing profession. You can see,,

that 47%, 47% of humanity, so again, we're dealing with a vast number in the billions, that.

47%,,

of.

humanity is holding on to things that are.

bad for them. This is the strategy of the open spleen, holding on to things that are bad for you.

So,.

I'm.

going,,

to hold on to daddy even though daddy is abusing me because as long as daddy's in my aura, I feel secure even though daddy's a.

beast. And of course, we know what happens that the mind takes over as the propagandist of the not-self,,,

and.

the mind is always in there ready to say, we're still going to hold on to this even though it's bad for us and so forth,,

and so on. So you can see that the market here, the market is about getting people to move away from holding on,,

to things that are bad for them. And by the way, because the spleen is about survival, you know, that this takes us into not only the health field, but it takes us into all.

kinds of things, consultancy, it takes us into all kinds,,

of areas that are there in which the product is.

getting people away from things that aren't good for them. Now, it's not about healing people that are already sick. It's one of my long-standing things about humanity and.

health. You know, this is about keeping people educated so that they have a holistic and healthy.

life, learning how to keep away from themselves what is bad for them. And of course, this is something very special about, you know, the marketplace of.

the open spleen. But remember, we're dealing with a spleen that has.

a deep tribal aspect to it, and a deep tribal aspect that is deeply capitalistic, is very materialistic. In other words, to be.

very clear that though a lot of this has to do with the immune system and well-being, you.

know, it also has to do with a.

lot of other things. It has to do with the fact that capitalism does not survive without deep support within the community. You cannot impose capitalism from the top.

down. It's a disaster. It's a disaster. It has to be imposed from.

the bottom up, you know, because it is the natural, it is natural for us to barter. It is.

the most natural thing in human beings, you know, and to barter for gain, you know, and it's the illusion of gain that both sides get in a fair barter. You know, and all of that is rooted in the basis,,

of the tribe, in the basis of.

the development of the tribe. So when we're dealing with the spleen, 47% in.

terms of its capacity to be a.

profit.

center. The next step is the G Center. And again, with the G Center, we can see the progression of.

the statistics. We have 56% definition,,

in the G. That means that 44% of humanity is undefined and.

44% of humanity is still looking for love,,

and the right direction. So,.

this is a great market. You can sell maps, you know, you can run pornographic internet sites.

You.

can run, you.

know, counseling for partnerships. You can run dating services. You know, it goes on and on and on and on and on and on,,

and,,

on. And again, you can see what happens to the not self in those situations is that the,.

not.

self.

is saying, oh, I'm looking for the right direction. And there's always somebody who will say, yes, for a fee, I.

will.

take,.

you to the right place. You know, this is the nature of the world and they're always going to.

meet the person that will sell it to them. Have you ever noticed at the moment,,

that you decide,.

you want to buy something, you meet somebody who's selling it? It's one of those bizarre things about life.

You know, because it's just in the mechanics.

You know, it's like people who say, well, what's it like,,

when, you know, the other end,,

of that gate gets.

connected? You're going to meet it all the time. You know, I mean,,.

we're meeting these things all the time. So we have these natural receptors. We're pulling,.

it in. OK, so there's the G center.

We go down from the G.

center. We go to the root 58 percent defined. So we've got 42 percent, 42 percent. Now, remember, the root center is an.

incredible. This is one of my favorites. Look, the not.

self strategy of the root center is I'm going to do this as.

quick as I can to be free. I'm going to get rid of.

the pressure that way. I'm going,,

to.

do,.

it as quick as I can to.

be.

free. I'm going to do,.

it,,

as quick as I.

can,,

to.

be free. Oh, I've got this vacation spot. And what you can sell.

these people is amazing. Pensions. You can sell them dreams. You can sell them.

anything. And more than that, more than,,

that, you can burden them like no one.

else.

You.

know, if you get through all of this, you're going to be free. You know, you're going to be free. You're going to.

have,.

this little cottage there. You know, all you got to do is.

give us a certain amount of.

your time, your money, your.

life, whatever the case may be. Anyway, the root.

center in a hurry, in a hurry,,

to be free.

Now, I got an open root. That's what I sell you. I sell you a quick way to be.

free. Quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick. You're a generator. Respond.

Out the door.

Goodbye. Quick, quick,.

quick. Get it over with. It was like.

my readings, you know. They got so compressed, you.

know, that,.

I go,.

well, okay, bye. Quick, done, over. You're free now.

You know how.

many people are selling freedom? There are so.

many freedom.

salespeople in the.

world. Politicians,.

eh?

George E. Bush is.

trying to sell freedom to.

the Iraqis.

I love it. And,.

there's.

all these kids looting.

buildings, right? You're free.

Okay, let's steal. You know? Great. Okay. Open root center. How nice. Anyway, next. Sacral. Oh, sacral. It's a.

lousy market. Really. It's a.

lousy market. If it weren't for the.

fact,,

that it keeps the whole plant operating, we would actually do a way, downsize them, you know? Make.

them.

redundant, you know? This is not a.

good.

profit.

center. You know, which.

means,,

that.

projectors,.

oh,.

God,,,

and.

reflectors and manifestors, you know, it's like, shit, you know? What are we.

going to.

do with this? Eh? You know what they do? You.

see, when a generator comes into.

the world and they turn the switch, it's like, okay,.

start working. You know? As soon as they come into the world, start working. You've got an.

open sacral center. You come into.

the.

world,,

as.

anything,,

but a generator. You come into the world and the first thing you say is, don't turn on,,

that.

switch. I am not here to work. Period. Right? Right. Okay.

And we know that the not-self strategy of the open sacral is not knowing,,

when enough is enough. Right? Okay. Guess what you can sell out of an open.

sacral? I can sell to all the.

generators on earth to stop what they're doing. Enough.

now. Enough of being not-self. Enough of being stupid.

Enough,,

of being an idiot.

You know, enough of being.

a moron. You know,.

here you are, the.

great, exalted, mystical. You see the shit that I sell to.

generators? You're the only holy people. And they love it,.

eh? Oh, it's really good. Yeah, I'm holy,.

eh? To know when enough is enough, it's not a good.

market. You ever try to get.

a.

generator to wake up?

You can understand it's,.

not a good market.

I've spent years, years.

trying to have impact,,

on,,

that market.

You know, and there they are.

No, it's not enough yet. It's not enough yet. It's,.

not enough yet. It's not enough yet. It's not enough yet. Ah. Throat centers. The worst market of all, eh? I mean,.

only 29% of humanity have an open throat. And we.

know,,

that the strategy, the not-self strategy of the open throat is,,

that,,.

you.

know,,.

you.

have,,

to.

attract attention. Open throat people are always, always trying to attract attention. Always. And, of course, that's the way their mind's.

going to work. You know, I'm going to do this because it attracts attention, or I'm going to.

do that because it attracts attention, and so.

forth and so on. So one of the things to see is that the selling,,

of attracting attention has a small.

market.

How,,

to teach people with an open throat. You know, literally, they're the ones who want to know, how.

do I attract attention? You understand how insane,.

this is. If you teach somebody with an open throat how to attract attention, you're teaching them how to be better furniture. You're not.

waking them up. Well, you're,.

not.

You.

know, somebody comes to me with an open throat and I say, look, pay me a fortune and you can.

attract.

attention.

too. Let me show you how. And then they.

just paint on this layer onto their not-self, you know, and they think they've learned how to attract attention. See, I've had a real privilege in my life to be raised wealthy, to.

lose and give up and to have.

everything taken away, to be with absolutely nothing for years, for years, and then to watch through all of this process material move. My whole market has been the not-self. There's no true selves for me to sell. I wouldn't bother. Don't have anything to sell them. Nothing. It's one of the.

ironies of my life, is that in order for human.

design,,

to be a success, I.

had to sell the not-self.

Not,,

in the way that I personally train anybody. Not in the way that anybody comes through this knowledge. But in the way in which the understanding of what these kinds of things are all about, my appeal, my.

ability, human design's ability.

up until a few days ago, because it was rooted in my design, was.

all about taking advantage of those themes in me that are not-self. I used my shadow. I dressed in black. I used my shadow to pull in the not-self world. Just shadow. Money's a funny thing. It's just there. For me, it's prana. It's clear to me that it's nothing more than prana. I.

am what I am and I breathe. I breathe it in, I.

breathe it.

out. I breathe,.

it in, I breathe it out. And that's just the way it is. But the reality is we.

don't.

live,,

in a world.

like that. We don't. You know, I'm... It's always, you know, it's,.

why I've held back so long in teaching this kind of a course. You know, to really be able to.

understand that our whole concept of the material plane, our whole idea about money and what money.

is,,

and how all of this works,,.

you.

know,,.

it's.

all a lie. I mean, after all, the.

70% of humanity that are generators generate the pattern that is life. They generate the pattern that is life. We know the generators and not self is deeply frustrated, that the material.

plane,,

of our lives are deeply frustrated, that we do not operate correctly on this plane. And if,.

we operated correctly on this plane, you know,.

nobody would be without. Nobody. And not that it would be some kind of socialist utopia. That's nothing to do with that. It's simply that nobody would really be without.

There's always a hierarchy. There's always this and that. There's always comparison in the uniqueness. There's always this spectrum that is there,,

in humanity. But it's not about.

having.

nothing. It's not about suffering. It's,.

not about the deep frustration of 3 billion people on,.

this planet who.

are hungry every night. You know, it's,.

not about that. And yet at the same time, when I open up these mechanics, what I'm really showing you is that.

the only way you're going to.

make money within the context of the plane we're living on is,,

that you do make money by reinforcing the not self of.

others. Now, I'm not talking about us.

Because.

after all, our job is to take people away from that. But you really have to understand that we're an anomaly.

anyway. You know, we are a new fractal. You know, but the reality is for millennia and millennia, it is the not self into relationship that created the.

material plane. You know, so.

see both sides in this. Don't delight too.

much in understanding how this works. You know, because it's something to recognize that it's part of. It's.

part of the problem. Okay, so the final one is the throat. So I want you to have this sense that when,.

you're looking here, that you really begin to understand something.

about the way in which we work is that these receptors within us, these receptors give.

us our life, Maya. You know, without our receptors, there would be no.

life. You know, the receptors open us.

up,,

to.

the.

other, open us up to the world. But in opening us up, it also.

defines what we're going to meet. It defines what we're going to meet. And at the moment that you begin,,

to.

see the potential that lies in your open centers or your open gates or your open channels, then you begin to see what.

the.

material possibilities are for,.

you. Because that's where you can be wise and where at the same time, you're guaranteed in your life to be attracting the other forces. Guaranteed. See, if we lived in an ideal environment, if we lived in an ideal environment, if everybody was living out their nature, if we were.

operating.

correctly in the.

hierarchy, if the manifestors were operating at peace amongst.

themselves, if projectors and generators were operating in harmony, then reflectors would be able to determine worth. Worth. You know, if I'm.

going to have.

a.

corporation, I'm going to want a projector at the top,,

of that corporation, and I'm going to want a reflector,,

that looks after what people earn. What they earn. See, the reflector is supposed to be, supposed to be the role of a justice that.

is their place, that they are.

here to know the community, they.

are here to know the they of their milieu, and they're here to recognize value within the milieu.

Obviously, we don't operate that way. I mean, we don't. We don't. And so we have these.

arbitrary.

ways,,

in,,

which we determine what.

the value of somebody's work is. You know, somebody who's doing the same job,,

in the first world and in the third world. You know, if you're working at a steel plant in Germany, and,.

you're working.

at a steel plant in Thailand, and you're both doing the same job,,.

I guarantee you that the German worker is making at least four times as much. At least.

So, you know, we don't have a sense of justice in that sense. Because that steel worker in Germany is not worth more money than that steel worker in Thailand. They're not. They're not. So, you know, we don't have a system in which we have a general justice. For.

example, you know, one of my complaints for years was that women are not paid the same.

amount as men in the same job, which.

always seemed insane to me. I mean, a job is.

a job is a job, and,.

it's the same kind of question. You know, it's the same kind of.

thing.

In other words, that it's the not-self that's deciding values. It's the not-self that's doing that. It's not being done in a way that is correct in,,

that sense. Okay. So that's the first thing, to look at the centers and to see through the centers that we have. We have our little profit centers. Third.

line. The process that I'm going to take you through is that I'm going to take you.

through.

a unique analysis of third lines in all,,

of.

the 64 gates. Everything about the third line is that the third line is the only.

line,,

that is mutative. That's the first thing to recognize in its chemistry. Third lines are mutative,,,

and.

third.

lines are the only lines that are specifically about the material. Now remember that when we're looking at a hexagram, that,.

we are looking at a complex dynamic. And what I want you to understand from my analysis.

over the days of the third line.

is to understand a thematic value. A thematic value expressed in the third line that expresses the.

material value of the whole hexagram. Just as the fourth line will express the personal.

influence of the whole hexagram, or the fifth line will express the universalized impact of the whole hexagram,,.

it's very important to see that when I'm discussing these third lines, yes, it will be more impactful if you have a third line,,

that is activated in your design. But the fact that you have the first line or the second.

line, for example, I only have one gate in the head center. I have it unconscious. It's my design sun. It's the 61.1, occult knowledge. It's,.

not a third line. It's not. What I sell is the deep investigation of the occult. That's my inspiration. My inspiration is that I can take you in.

at the investigative.

level. But as you will.

see when we go,,

to look at the hexagram,.

the theme of how that.

works is going to be expressed by the third line. So in other words, I want you to see,,

that,,

as I'm describing how the third line works, I want you to see that what I'm describing is.

the general thematic out of that third line that expresses the whole hexagram. Obviously, first,.

second, fourth, fifth, sixth lines will operate within that third theme, but will operate in different ways. The one and the three is a dissonance. So is the two and the three. So is the four and the three. So is the five and the.

three. The six and the three isn't. So the six line in any hexagram is going to have a.

deeper relationship to the third line theme,,

and so forth and so on. But still, regardless of what line you have, that.

third line theme is going to define the material nature. That's the most important.

thing,,

to grasp. So I want you to define the material nature of the hexagram as a whole. We've.

looked.

at many things in terms of the nature of the third line. That is, we begin with the.

fact that the third line has,.

this quality to be able to adapt. Now, this is one of the things to recognize.

about the material plane, that the material plane is mutative. If,.

you don't adapt, you die. In other words, it is one of the things to recognize,,

that, well, it's very simple. If you cannot embrace failure, you will never be a success. If you.

cannot embrace the.

possibility of failure, you can never be a success. Not possible.

And this is one of the inherent things about the nature of the.

third line and its depth.

And its depth. You know, so important to recognize that about the third line. Is that the third line accepts, accepts, has to, that life has mistakes. That.

life can be discovery. You know, we're always impressed, no matter where we come.

from,,,

when somebody discovers something, a technique, a product or whatever, and overnight they become this enormous.

success.

You know, and then we hear the heartbreaking story of how they did it. You know, they.

were in the garage for six years and, you know, all of,,

that stuff. And they had so many failures until they threw the bubble gum in the.

pot and everything changed. You know, the trial and error, you know, fight your way through. And all of the mythology.

about, oh, my father, you know, I was a.

great.

disappointment. I was lazy and shiftless and I was a bum and,,.

you know, I was only.

interested in sex and music. And I wanted to dance naked in the sun. And he kept on saying to me,,,

but only when you work and you work hard at.

something, are you really going to see how good that feels and.

the reward of it and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I'll see you after my next acid trip, you know. And of course, that cliché, that cliché is that third line cliché.

It's a third line cliché that after 10 trial and error blunders, they.

finally get it. And it's like, yes, we've.

mastered it now. You know, there's this wonderful capacity in them. And so,.

it's something to understand about the nature of the material way. Is that the material way is,.

not.

easy. And,,

that you have to deal with the fact,,

that you may fail. That you have to deal with the fact that things will not go the.

way,.

you want. But if you are, if you are ready to adapt, then what happens to you out of that, what you learn, you.

know, this can bring you enormous benefit. This is, I'm giving you some cross references here of third line themes, because I.

want you to see how deep it runs within us. And when you're looking.

at the third line theme in the mystical grid, this is a profile grid of the mystical way. When you're looking at this, you.

see that third lines are interpreted as attunement. This pressure, by the way, has to do with the fact that it has to do with the 19th Gate, this illustration. It's attunement. It's,,

in being in tune. And it's not so much being in tune the way you're in tune as a classical musician with the music written in front of you. No, no,.

no. This is jazz by ear. And you stay attuned.

And only if you.

have that attention that you stay attuned, you know, people will talk about their material.

life.

humming.

along. You know, there's.

a nice piece of music to it. It's about being attuned. And when you're attuned, the moment that there's a.

shift, you can go with it. You know, suddenly, suddenly the saxophone player takes off, you know, without telling.

anybody, you know, and there's the bass player and the drummer catching up.

And the piano player.

finally gets into line and.

away they go and they got a whole.

new track. And by the way, the audience is there going, wow, that was great. How'd you do that? Can you do it.

again?

You know, this is all about being attuned. So if you cannot adapt, if,.

you cannot handle the pressure of failure, if you cannot be attuned, you're going,,

to have trouble. You know, because,.

this is the heart of what the material way is all about.

You see what happens to people pretty, you know,.

my joy is in entrepreneurship. I have enormous respect for it. I think it's a very courageous way of working in the world. And,,.

you know, when you,,

when you look at that and I look at, you know, what it is to take on that,,

that whole burden, you see that.

people are totally absorbed. I mean, totally absorbed. If you work for.

yourself, you work 60 percent more than you would ever work for any boss. And you do it with joy. This is the attunement, you know, you know, sailing right,,

in there. Sometimes you're so deeply focused that you forget to.

see that the world is changing around you, you know, and you.

need,,

to.

adapt,,

and you need to do this. But, you know, it's all about staying attuned and being absorbed. You know,.

again, you can never.

separate the.

mundane from the mystical. After all, you know, it's it's something,,

to understand that everything that you need is there and it's coming to your.

openness. You know, it's there. It's there. I have never had to look for pleasure,,

in my life. Never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never. I.

have an open emotional system. I have met pleasure.

all my life. I.

never had,,

to look for it. Never. You know, I have to teach.

emotional people where to find pleasure. You imagine I've never.

had,,

to look for,.

it.

Pleasure meets me everywhere. OK, attunement. Now we get to the we.

get to the funny stuff. This is a this is a pyramid that's bandaged anyway. In the mechanics,,

of.

the.

sleeping.

life, when we're looking at the third line, remember the mechanics of sleeping life, you're horizontal, you're working out of.

a 16-gate mammalian matrix, what we call dream rave. When you're looking at the third line,,.

you see what makes the material plane so difficult, because the third line.

is.

turmoil, turmoil. And you see, most human beings do not suffer over the material plane while they're awake. Most people suffer over the.

material plane when they're.

asleep, when they're asleep. This is when you wake up,,

in the middle of the night or you wake.

up early in the morning and,.

there's this shock. Oh, Jesus, I forgot. Oh, oh, oh, oh, whoa, I better do that.

now. You know, and you're not going to get it. Whoa,,.

I better.

do that now. You know, and you're out the door,,

in.

the.

office and it's a quarter to four. You know, there isn't even a bar open, you know, nothing. The.

turmoil. See,.

the not self really thinks that it's in charge. So the moment,,

that the not self is involved in that way, the turmoil that's at work, you.

know,.

is.

extraordinary. It's extraordinary. See, this again, this is one of the things about being correct. It's one of the things that I.

constantly talk about in terms of sleep patterns. You really have,,

to recognize that sacral beings,,

and non-sacral beings have to have to go to sleep differently and in their.

own spaces. You know, generators can only go to sleep when they're exhausted. We all know,,

that simple. Non-sacral beings must get into bed,.

must be horizontal before they go to sleep. You know, so they have time, half hour, hour, whatever,.

it takes, very, very different mechanisms. If you're not sleeping correctly, according to being sacral or.

non-sacral, you're going,,

to have even more turmoil,,

that's going to take place while you're asleep. And you're going to wake up with that as part of that whole third line theme. So it's something to keep in mind that,,.

you know, we're not just talking about the third line and the fact that the way in which it's going to impact us in our waking life, but,,

to see that it's,.

there in the unconscious and at the, you know, at the sleeping level and at the sleeping level to recognize that it is, it's not a nice frequency. It's not. It's.

turmoil. And of course you can imagine that for most of.

humanity.

who has a.

great deal of trouble on the material plane, that there is real, genuine turmoil in that awakening. I mean, wow, you know, where am I going to.

get, let alone,,.

you know, whether the cash machine is going to be open, where am I going to find enough to.

grice,,

to feed my kids, where am I.

going to find the firewood just to make the fire so that I can cook whatever.

is there and so forth and so on.
