Part Three

The 64 Hexagram Gates

[The Channel of Awareness] 61/24 A design of a Thinker

61: Inner Truth

The Gate of Mystery

Fuel: Pressure of the unknown or the Unknowable

Energy Mechanic: The Struggle for Silence

The Awareness Stream of Knowing

[The Knowing Circuit]

The Integration Channels

Individuation

57: The Gentle - The Awareness

34: The Power of the Great - The Power

10: Treading - The Way

20: Contemplation - The Existential Expression

57/34 [The Channel of Power] A desigh of an Archetype

57/10 [The Channel of Perfected Form] A design of Survival

57: The Gentle

The Gate of Intuitive Clarity

Possibility: Awareness to struggle for clarity or not

Awareness Possibility: Individuation Self-Consciousness

Awareness [The Integration Channels]

The Gentle is the gate of Hearing in the Now, the gate of the right ear. The maximization of intuitive clarity demands existential attention. This "hearing" in the now is transformed through spontaneous recognition. Intuition is the response to auditory stimulation. The attention is conditioned by fear. The channel of Power is the beginning of the individuation process. The archetype is a human, separate, individual and vulnerable. The intuition is powerless without this connection. The integration channels are underlined by the life and death struggle that has always been existence in form. The fear of powerlessness is the 57 without the 34. The 10th gate of Treading brings the behavior of the Self under the guidance of the intuition. The result is the channel of Perfected Form, a design for survival. This is the channel of beauty. Survival and our health are determined by the nature of the form.

1. Confusion- The possibility of the intuition penetrating to the inner meaning. Venus

The possibility that confusion will overpower the intuition. Moon

2. Cleansing- The possibility of proper values and ideals through intuition. Venus

The possibility that the depth of the intuition will be treated superficially. Moon

3.Acuteness- The possibility of perfected intuition. Mercury

Note: This is one of the nine hexagrams in which there is no polarity.

4. The Director- The possible intuitive clarity to master relationships. Venus

With such a gift, the possibility of being intuitively dictatorial. Mars

5. Progression- The possible intuitive gift for evaluation. Pluto

When in action, the intuition may become overwhelmed and unable to assess and evaluate its progress. Moon

6. Utilization- Where there is no answer, only the possibilities of the intuition can make the best out of a difficult situation. Uranus

The possibility that when the intuition cannot solve a problem a tendency to frustration and anger. Mars

34/57 [The Channel of Power] A design of an Archetype

34/20 [The Channel of Charisma] A design where Awareness must become deed

34: The Power of the Great

The Gate of Power

Energy Individuation Power

Fuel Possibility Self-Empowerment Independence

Power [The Integration Channels]

It is the Power of the Great which determines whether individuation can be maintained. This is an enormous energy resource and not aware. Its power allows it to fuel three different channels. The empowerment of the human archetype is its primary function and the definition to 57 is essential. This power without the guidance of awareness can wreck havoc. It is through the channel of Charisma, a design where thoughts must become deeds, that its destabilizing impact is so common. The power of 34 is relentless, when defined to the Throat, it must manifest. Charisma is what we call the release of individual Power in the Now. In the design keynote, the term "thoughts" is used. Do not misinterpret this illusion to the mind only. It is in fact a reference to any of the three awareness centers (Ajna / Mind, Spleen / Body and Solar Plexus / Spirit). The channel of Charisma not defined to an awareness center is open to conditioning from any awareness and in the instant of identification with the awareness, it will turn the awareness into deeds. The irony is that charismatic individuals, who seem to epitomize personal power, are so often profoundly manipulated in their lives.

1. The Bully- The energy to display power as a response to frustration. Saturn

The ever present risk of retaliation to power displays. Pluto

2. Momentum- The power that grows when victory is in sight. Mars

The power for growth limited by impatience. Venus

3. Machismo- The display of power that defines any role. Saturn

The calculated display of power in order to define the role. Mercury

4. Triumph- The inherent confidence to use power subtly. Pluto

A lack of confidence that can lead to abuse of power. Mars

5. Annihilation- The resistance to release power other than when necessary. Mars

The discomfort with the need to always release power. Moon

6. Common sense- The restriction of the release of power when one does not have the strength to maintain it. Earth

The lack of restrictions that can sap ones strength. Jupiter

10/20 [The Channel of Awakening] A design of Commitment to higher Principles

10/57 [The Channel of Perfected Form] A design of Survival

10: Treading

The Gate of the Behaviour of the Self

Magnetic Monopole. Vessel. Behaviour

Nature of Self. Love of Living. I know I am that I am

The Li [The Integration Channels]

This is the most complex gate that opens up out of the G center. Out of the 10th gate, three channels can be formed. The 10th gate is a behavioral bridge which links the Centering circuit to the Knowing circuit. It is the potential behavior of the Self. Before this behavior can manifest, it must be guided spontaneously by the intuition (57) from the Splenic awareness, and empowered by the Sacral (34) and then it can manifest through the Throat in the now (20). Treading is a gate of the Vessel, a gate of Love. It is the 10th gate which ensures the perfection of our form and its survival and the conviction which guides it, is the Love of Living, of being alive. The channel of Awakening is the oldest of our three mystical possibilities. The first and foremost initiation is to recognize who we are. This channel is perfectly illustrated by the inscription over the Oracle of Delphi, "Know thyself." Awakening is not a commitment to becoming something, it is a commitment to being oneself. One cannot know what is incomplete. The mystical love of this Vessel gate, is the love of Self as it is, in the now. This is Awakening.

1. Modesty- The ability to know ones place and how to act despite circumstances. Sun

Oversensitivity to external conditioning of behavior. Moon

2. The Hermit- Independent behavior through isolation. Mercury

Isolation to preserve independent behavior in the face of conditioning. Mars.

3. The Martyr- Behavior that is ultimately challenged by others. Earth

Behavior as a way to attract attention. Moon

4. The Opportunist- The maintaining of behavioral patterns until the right moment and opportunity for transformation. Uranus

Altering ones behavioral patterns in order to take advantage of opportunities. Mercury

5. The Heretic- Principled behavior which directly challenges tradition. Jupiter

Behavior which directly challenges behavior and is eventually punished. Mars

6. The Role Model- The enduring value of the expression of the Self through action rather than words. Pluto

Behavior restricted to words rather than action. Saturn

20/34 [The Channel of Charisma] A design where Awareness must become deed

20/10 [The Channel of Awakening] A design of Commitment to Higher Principles

20: Contemplation

The Gate of the Now

Expression. Mechanical Activity. 'I am Myself Doing Now'

Mystical Potential. Awakening. I am that I am

Manifestation [The Integration Channels]

Contemplation is the only purely existential gate. The Throat center is the final stage in the process of expressing the intuition. The Throat center is not aware. It has a mechanical function, to speak or act, which can be conditioned by awareness. Each gate of the Throat has its own unique voice. The Integration channels bring a complexity of voices and potential action. These are the only existential voices.

Gate Groups. The Voices of Individuation. Type

20. 'I Am Now'. Mechanical

20. 10. 'I Am Myself Now'. Mechanical

20. 10. 57. 'I Know I Am Myself Now'. Splenic

20. 10. 57. 34. 'I Know I Am Myself Doing Now'. Splenic

20. 10. 34. 'I Am Myself Doing Now'. Mechanical

20. 57. 34. 'I Know I Am Doing Now'. Splenic

20. 57. 'I Know I Am Now'. Splenic

20. 34. 'I Am Doing Now'. Mechanical

1. Superficiality- Superficial expression as an art form. Venus

The expression of the superficial personality. Moon

2. The Dogmatist- A restrictive awareness in the now. Venus

The gift through expression of leading others down a narrow restrictive path. Moon

3. Self-awareness- The expression of Self-conscious awareness in the now. Sun

The expression of Self-consciousness in the extreme. Earth

4. Application- Where the expression of awareness can only be turned into action through Co-operation with others. The teacher. Jupiter

The expression of awareness as theory with little interest in its application. Mercury

5. Realism- The success of expressing awareness through detail. Saturn

The expression of awareness in the now through dissatisfaction with the realityone sees. Uranus

6. Wisdom- The ability to transform individual awareness for general application and understanding. Venus

The ability to transform individual awareness for general application for the mental challenge. Mercury
