 Oh, can I do the 33 now? Good. Retreat, right? Active withdrawal and the transformation of a weak position into a strength. Oh, the value of reflection. The value of reflection. I mean, if you want to get mundane, it is about meetings. You know, it is about feedback. It is about discussions. You know, it is about looking into things in order that there is a level of accountability. You know, the 33rd Gate is a Gate of Remembrance. It is a Gate of Revelation. It is the thing that is able to take in all of that information. And it is about spirit. The attitude that turns retreat into victory. The responsible and principled retreat. Based on the preservation but with the determination to persevere. Privacy as a path to success. To success. It is about success. And it means that unless you go into retreat, which means unless you take a breath. You take a breath and you reflect. Unless you sit and you discuss. Then you are not going to be able to be on top of adaptation. The ability to be able to adapt to changes. If you do not remember what you have just been through. You have no record of movement in the experience. And so this is an essential ingredient. And it is the spirit. The spirit rises through the penetration of the secret. You know? Because you get to see whether it was really a secret or not. I mean, it is all the prodigal. You know, it is all the prodigal process. When we are dealing with the throat center, like with the 8, like with the 33. Remember that the throat center. The theme I mentioned in the 8 of demonstration. The throat center, the open throat center strategy is the need to attract attention. This is the only way that anything, any business concept, any business process. Any material path. The only way it manifests is through the throat. It does not matter whether the plane is generated. It manifests through the throat. And this is the only place where metamorphosis takes place. It is the only place where you can actually see the bottom line. The bottom line in this sense is the throat. Can you attract attention to your service, to your product, you know, to your value, whatever the case may be. So one of the ways, one of the ways to attract attention is to pull out of the limelight. To analyze things. And to be able to go back and deal with it. And work with getting the right kind of attention based on experience. Remember that everything about the roll gates expressed through the throat is how do you attract attention to your direction. You want to attract attention to learning about mistakes from the past. You want to attract attention to the potential of a formula in the future. You want to attract attention to what's new and improved. What has a new style. You want to attract the attention to the style. You know, living styles are changing all the time. We live very differently today than our parents lived. We have a different style of living. Just the advent of, you know, the common usage of airplanes and computers. And right away you have a different style of living that's inherent. We have a different style of eating. You know, we have abundance in our supermarkets and so forth and so on. It's all very different. Style is always moving. Always. Always. We're very style conscious. So in this context of, and I want to emphasize that because remember that, you know, the 1, the 7, and the 13, they're perspectives of the one direction that is through the 60, the 3, the 14, the 2, the 1, and the 8. And in the end, attracting attention is a style question. Always. So, you know, teaching people how to have the right style to attract attention is very important. And it covers many, many areas in the spectrum. The 31st Gate influence. You know, the third line speaks so clearly about one of the basic dilemmas of the not-self. It's the line of selectivity. It says, the ability to carefully assess and choose the proper influence and to tailor one's behavior accordingly. The capacity to lead in hands through association with the proper influences. There is no end to hierarchies. It means in order to be influential, you need to be influenced properly. That's something to think about. It's something to deeply recognize. It's why that the people that pay the most for consultancy are executives who are already influential. It's not like workers are paying for consultants to be successful. It's not like workers are paying for consultants to teach them how to become executives. You know, it's really something to understand that the only way that you can truly be influential in the collective sense is that you have to take in other collective influences. You need them. And remember that being influenced isn't the same as being controlled. It isn't the same as being led or handled. It is simply being guided. And this is the essence of being able to maintain a basic pattern into the future. Those that are influencing that direction remain open to being influenced to recognizing that A. they can't afford to be rigid, that the theory doesn't necessarily work in practice, you know, on and on and on. So selectivity is very important. It's one of the things that is natural to my work in the business areas of design application, that is with the human consulting system. In dealing within the context of the human consulting system, everything about human consulting is about genetic engineering, and genetic engineering ruled through selectivity. It's all about selection. And in the end, this tells us one of the great truths of design, that is that, you know, if you're correct, then you have the right forces in your life. If you have the right forces in your life, then you will have the right kinds of influences in your life. You know, I'm a very powerful man in terms of my influence, and yet at the same time, I'm not without forces that influence me, you know, from my own experience. There's all kinds of influences in my life that I take into consideration, that are part of keeping me attuned to the way in which I operate in the world as somebody who is influencing others. And remember, I'm a 7, not a 31, so I sell influence. You know, I mean, really see all that. It's just mechanical. It's just mechanical in a way. It's just mechanical. It's just mechanical, and again, we know because it's mechanical, it's going to be this or that. You know, we're going to have influence that is really negative and unproductive. Leadership for good or bad is the keynote. You know, there are Saddam Hussein's. You know, there are creatures like that. You know, there are good and bad in all influences. The 20th Game. And it is a key to being here. Recognition and awareness in the now, which transforms understanding into right action. I mean, there's nothing like being on your toes. You know? Being ready. It's one of the things that... You know, when the voice said to me, are you ready to work, he said, are you ready? It said, are you ready? I mean, and work for a non-sacral. But it said, ready, ready, yes, yes, I was ready. And that's my pure existential nature. You know, my existential nature is that at any time, at any moment, I'm here. You know, this is the 20th Gate. This is the perfection of the 20th Gate. You know, that you're on your toes. You know, that you're alert acoustically. That you're there. And that you're there to be able to respond. You're there to be able to act. You're there to be able to manifest spontaneously in the moment. And yet, the third line thematic is self-awareness. Understanding derived from analysis of personal actions and effects. And this is one of the things about relationships. It's one of the things about love. It's one of the things about running a business. Is that at some point, at some point, analysis of personal actions and effects are necessary. You know, every action has a reaction. Something that every manifestor is here to learn. You know, and inherent in the 20th Gate is this deep recognition that actions create reactions and they need to be assessed personally. You know, that if you're working in an organization, your work has to be assessed. You need feedback. You cannot run a business without feedback. And remember that the 2034, being the only archetypal manifesting generating channel, is the only one that's here to be structured. One of the many things I taught in America was the relationship between the 2034 to manifesting generators to the 2034 to the 4323. You know, they're both oppositions in the wheel of the wheel of the wheel of the wheel of the wheel of the wheel of the wheel. They're both oppositions in the wheel that become defined channels and they're directly related to each other. Directly related to each other through general circuitry as individuality. And it's one thing to understand about the 2034 is that the only force that is here for it is the 4323. It's here to be structured. It's here to be guided in that sense to a structure. And this is one of the essential things to recognize. You see, the 20th gate, the 20th gate, despite the fact that it has this spontaneous capacity, you know, its structure, its efficiency, its efficiency needs to be worked on, needs to be guided. And so the moment that you're dealing with any kind of enterprise, the moment that you're, you know, a small business and you have one employee, you know, it's not enough to just give them a paycheck. You know, you really have to be able to assess with them and discuss with them their progress. What's going on? Very, very important. And in, you know, and in the now of that, understanding derived from analysis of personal actions and effects. So, you know, your salesperson does something and it backfires and there's a real problem, you know, that's not something to gloss over. It needs to be dealt with and it needs to be dealt with right away. And again, this is one of the things about businesses is that we let things slide. We let things slide until they become bad habits. Remember the 20 connects to the 10, it connects to the behavioral reality. You know, and then the bad habits are hard to fix. They're hard to fix. And if you got a boom and bust and you got hard to fix bad habits, you're going to crash before the seven year cycle. You just will. The 16th gate. The great art. What a heading for a gate. No gate has such a... The great art of enriching life, my goodness, by the harmonic channeling of energy. It started off sounding really... What the hell is all that about? 16th gate. Independence. Talent. Talent. Channel of talent. The only way, the only way to perfect talent is through ego inflation. Remember ego inflation in the 15? We're in the same circuitry now. So think about talent. Everything about talent is self-generating and sustaining enthusiasm. Self-generating and sustaining enthusiasm. And one of the things about talent, in order for talent to emerge... Remember, it's about the harmonic channeling. That's what the talent is all about. You know, the musician that's in the flow. You know, and all of that is there. But in order to be able to bring the talent out, you need identification. Without identification, talent can never become mastery. It's just something where you recognize somebody has a gift, but they never master that gift. And one of the things that's necessary is that despite the fact that this is collective, it's collective... 16th gate, it needs to be shared. Talent needs to be shared. But talent isn't going to have impact until it gets to a place of being mastered. And talent is only mastered when it's encouraged. When it's encouraged to be hierarchical. You know, when the child comes to you and they're learning the violin, you cannot say to them what may be the truth. That you will always be seventh violin in the orchestra of life. They will never become even good musicians. They won't. And you see, the assumption here is that this is self-generating and sustaining enthusiasm. But I really want you to understand something. It isn't. It isn't. It's about proper timing. But it is more than anything else about being guided to being enthusiastic. When I see emerging talent in someone, you know, I encourage them. I was always, as a teacher, somebody that was here to positively reinforce. Oh, what a wonderful picture, I say to my son. You know, wonderful picture. Oh, you're a wonderful artist. You're great. You know, and the reality is that that brings out an enthusiasm to experiment with more art. To make another picture. And another picture. I have so many pictures. You know? And they get better. He gets better as a talent because he's beginning to get his own sustained enthusiasm. But that enthusiasm has to be collectively encouraged. So there is a wonderful thing to understand about the 16th Gate and teaching people how to attract attention. You teach them how to attract attention by giving them attention. You know? You give them attention. And you give them positive attention. And you will see how valuable that is. And you teach them positive attention. You know? I mean, people wonder why rock bands have groupies. You know, and they always snicker at the obvious. But it isn't about that. In the end, it's about people who are always encouraging them that they are the best and the greatest. Oh, we love your music. Puts us into a trance. It's wonderful. It's great. You're wonderful. You're marvelous. They need that. They need that. Oh, you know, I've done my best teaching when I'm with students who have been with me a long time. You know? There is the encouragement of their love of our process together. And because they're there and because of that encouragement, it drives me to be an even better teacher. That I don't want you to come to a class of mine and you walk away and say, the last one was better. I love it when you walk away and say, I didn't think he could do it, but this one's even better than the last one. And you know, that's how it works. You know, you can sell that stuff. I mean, the world's a business. You can sell anything. Anything, anything, anything, anything. Let me sell you some crisis. By design. 35th game. By design. I love that one. You know, it's like God saying, this is the way it is. By design. Progress cannot exist in a vacuum. Gee, rocket science stuff, eh? Progress cannot exist in a vacuum and is dependent on interaction. Let me share expectation with you. There is nothing more incredible about the 35th gate. You know, it's a single chemistry codon. It's the only gate of a specific codon. Tryptophan. And 35th gate is really interesting. It's like something very odd that's sort of the program. Boop. You know, like, let's see what this brings. You know, the 35th gate is the great gate of expectation. Expectation. Oh, how that sells. Remember that underlying the third line is the third color and it's the color of desire and this is the gate of expectation. And it is the desire to have a fulfilled expectation. And boy do we sell expectations. If you go through this process for seven years as yourself, you're going to be as awake as Buddha. Hey, it sells, eh? Well, it does, you know? And it's really good. Everybody's walking around, two more years to Buddhahood. I only have to buy six more courses. I'm going to get there sooner or later. Ah, don't I love it? It works, by the way. That's the nice thing, you know, otherwise I'm in trouble. I wouldn't tell you my secrets. By design. And then you have to buy a book. By design. And look at the third line theme of the 35. It says, by design you've got to be filled with the need for expectation. But, collaborate. Oh, God. Collaborate. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. You know, it's one of my favorite scientific facts. Wonderful statement. The whole is always greater, always greater, always greater. Always greater than the sum of its parts. Always. And here's this wonderful third line collaboration. Benefic encouragement of others. Right? No, no, no, really, really, really. Let me tell you, if we do it in the canoe, it's going to be wonderful. Benefic encouragement. You know, it's going to be a rewarding experience for us. Really. That expands personal as well as communal progress. The ability to bring progressive change into others' lives. It's collaboration. So, expectation is never sold to one person. You know? You sell expectation to couples. You're going to be happy and fulfilled in your long relationship to each other. You can expect to grow old with each other deep in, you know. We sell binary expectations to begin with. Yeah, I think she might go for it. You know? Binary expectations. Always. And you see, this is the wonderful thing. When you're selling talent, you have to sell the unique attention getter. The identified point. Here, you've got to sell the experience and it's got to be shared. It's got to be shared. You know, you cannot share the expected rewards of masturbation to the 35-6. You can't. You know, it says, alone? Alone? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Someone can watch, right? You know? Oh, yes, the gods love a good joke. So, collaboration. So, it's one of the things to understand about selling expectation. Have you ever seen these couple testimonials? We tried it and it worked. It fulfilled our expectations. Oh, yeah, good, good for you. Oh, Lord. The 12th gate. You know, the 12th gate is the manifesting heart of romance. And here, here is the heart of romance. Here, here is where the devil buys your soul. You want a heavy gate. Here's where the devil buys your soul. Sneaks into your soul and sings you a song. And then the devil says to you, you want to sell it to me? I'll buy it. Right? There are enormous amount of human beings that make a living romancing the soul. You know, they try to overwhelm your soul. If they overwhelm your soul, their music is in your head. You buy their music. You buy into their story. You buy into their package. They simply take you over. Third line is confession. The process of self-analysis. The recognition of inadequacies and the purging of unjustified vanities. The expression of inadequacies in social interaction that leads to self-analysis and caution. Perverse and often exaggerated self-hatred. You see, I'm here to romance those that hate themselves. See, I am so much in love with me that it's contagious. You know? And in a way, I try to buy your soul. You know, I tell you, if you pay money, if you pay money, you know, you're finally going to fulfill the destiny of your personality, which is your soul. And then you enter into things heart and soul. You enter into things with a deep passion. You know, there's an enormous seductiveness in the romance and the selling of romance. You know, if you look at the catalogs in bookstores and you look at what sells more than anything else, anything else in the English-speaking world, are romance novels. And not good ones, eh? Just romance novels. The kinds of things where you find out about a writer who wrote 370 in her lifetime, you know, banged out, you know, one a month or one every two weeks. There's all kinds of these being. The people that sit and watch soap operas. You know, the people who are, you know, who dream of love boats. And when you capture somebody's soul, you can get them to participate in anything. Anything. It's one of the most dangerous of all selling. How do they attract attention? Through art. Let us go to money. Honey. 45. The natural and generally beneficial attraction of like forces. The 45 understands something. It understands that for every product and service there's a client. You know, it's the same thing as understanding your design. You know, for every gate there is a receptor. There's always that. But it's also something else. The theme of the 45 is exclusion. Exclusion. And this is one of the things to understand about the way in which we have naturally developed our corporate cultures is that they've been based on exclusive power centers. You know, it's like the joke in the corporate world about the key to the executive bathroom. You know, you finally make it when you get the key to the executive bathroom. You know, you finally make it when you get into the inner circle. You know, when you get your seat on the politburo. You know, when you finally get into the cabal itself. And there is a great deal of suspicion that comes from the collective and individuality about such cabals. They don't particularly like them. And yet this is the natural ruler of the material plane. We know that the 45th gate is deeply possessive and the only voice of having and not having. And obviously we attract attention in two ways. We can attract the attention of those have who have by offering them things they don't have that they can afford to buy. And we can attract the attention of those who don't have by trying to get them to a place where they do have. It's all about having and it's all about attracting attention to it. One of the deep responsibilities of the 45th is to make sure that its organization is kept up to date, that is educated. But this exclusion is very, very important. Now one of the things to recognize about exclusion is that if you read the line, it's about something else as well. And it tells you something about the nature of the dynamic of business which is fundamentally organic. The line is the ability when excluded to take whatever measures are necessary to dissolve the antiquated form and to accept even humiliation to achieve inclusion. Now what that really is about is that if you're outside of the inner circle, nothing says you have to stay there permanently. You know? And we have this horrible thing. It's called brown nosing. Do you all know what brown nosing is? That's when you're sticking your nose up the boss's ass. Oh, it's awful, but it's true. There's always a brown noser, somebody outside the inner circle who goes, I'll do anything you want. You want all the members of that factory killed? Okay, okay, I'll do it, I'll do it. Whatever you like, whatever you like. And one day they get that phone call that says, oh, we'd like you to come into the inner circle now. There are a number of, I don't want to get into historical things, but there are some many historical things. There are some many very interesting examples of that. You know, the reality is that there is always the potential to move from the outer circle in, in. But the only way that you can get in is that you have to go as far as humiliation. I mean, you know, the corporate world is deeply, deeply tribal. It is the root of the tribe. It is the OCC 16 trans-aureic primal cellular structure. It is the thing, the primary gene group. And all business, all business will always, always be run this way. The difference between the included and the excluded can change, but it creates problems. The German economy is an example in which from the postwar socialism that unions were provided seats on boards of directors. Boy, in the end, is that ever a disaster. It's just a disaster. It doesn't work. And so it's one of the things to see that if you come up from the shop room floor and you eventually make it to the board on your own merits, that's something else. That's something else. But those who are naturally excluded shouldn't be included. And of course, selling this is quite a job. You know, because this is all about how to run modern enterprise and how to control your tribe, how to make the tribe functional. And in the end, how to attract attention for your tribe as a whole. My tribe is better than your tribe. My tribe has more than your tribe. You know, my tribe is better than your tribe. And you can see that that is natural for us in our cultural development. And it is natural for us in the way in which our businesses develop. So it's something to recognize. And it doesn't matter whether you're a huge conglomerate, you know, or you're a small business. You know, one of the most difficult places for exclusion is in the small business. Because in the small business, everybody feels like they're a part of it. It's usually a pentadynamic, and they all feel like they're included and should be included in everything. You know, how much you earn, and it goes on and on and on and on and on. It's very important to understand the theme of exclusion leads to more efficiency, and everybody ends up making more. Everybody. Everybody. One little thing that I want to add underneath quietly, because I don't want people who have the 45th Gate to be beaten to death in this classroom, is that this is where taxation comes from. You know, those who are on the inside, you know, are different in the way in which they're taxed, and those on the outside. Anyway, how nice. Let's move along to the 56th Gate, and let's talk about how we express salesmanship, attention-getting, okay, because it's all under attention-getting. We have three ways of getting attention. You know, we get attention by displaying the facts. We get attention by telling a story, and we get attention by expressing uniqueness. And you can see in marketing, for example, that we have all of those examples on television every day. And I'm only talking about just these three gates of the throat pointed upwards. So we have three basic ways of getting attention. Well, we're dealing with the 56th Gate. Dealing attention is telling a story. And you can see in so much television advertising is that they try to make their, what they want you to be attracted to, part of a story. You know, they want to get you into the story. It's the story that's going to get you to the product, to the point now that we have films like the recent James Bond, in which advertisers have actually paid for, you know, material advertising products to actually be placed very clearly within the context of the film so people can see the products being used in the story without any sales pitch. It's very powerful. You know, if James Bond is using a certain brand of gin, you know, there are certain people at the subconscious level that that will have an impact. It will get some attention for that product. You have that in America with rappers. You know, you have rappers who like to, you know, make themselves, again, adornment style. You know, they like to buy the most expensive of everything. And they have become incredible spokespeople for, you know, the most outrageously priced items. You know, when you see these items, they're wearing them in their music video. You see it on MTV. You know, they're driving a Humvee and they're wearing a fur coat. You know, and they've got that specific, you know, scotch in their hand. And everybody sees it and people want to have the same thing. It's very powerful, very powerful in the telling of the story. Stability through movement. The perpetuation of continuity through the linking of short-term activity. And telling stories is about alienation. It's about eliminating alienation. You don't want people to be on the outside. You want to bring them in. You want to make them self-sufficient. And this can often prove overbearing. You know, this is one of the things about the sales pitch, particularly the story sales pitch. Let me tell you how this works. Oh, Jesus. No, I don't want to. How much does it cost? You know, I mean, forget the pitch, right? I mean, every, you know, it's when I was living in Sedona, we used to, I used to get all quite often these teleprompter, tele, tele people, you know, they could tell marketers, you know, they call you up in the telephone and they want to tell you a story. They have a pitch. You know, they want to interest you, you know, and I would put the telephone down and go away and do things and come back. They'd still be working. You know, telling you their story, you know, they're getting their story out. The drive to control and be the focus of expression and the drive to control and focus others to that storytellers are great. You know, and these are pitch people. You know, these are abstract pitch people. And what they're going to say is, you know, look, this refrigerator is incredible. My mother, my mother used to have this, this other model. And, you know, we always had a problem. You know, I'm tired of having a fridge that the lights always off inside and so forth and so on. You know, and then we got this new fridge, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And it's always some kind of a story. You know, it's this kind of friendly banter. You know, it seems like it's innocuous conversational, by the way. You know, they'll tell you all sorts of things. And then suddenly they'll say, by the way, I sell insurance. And it's like, oh, fuck. Oh, is that what you were doing to me? Jesus, Jesus, no, I was just trying to stimulate you, you know, stimulate you with this story. This is Jesus telling parables. Great way to sell. You tell a parable. You don't wag your finger at him and say, don't be stupid, Fox, you know, it wouldn't work. You know, so you tell this parable about fish and sheep and I don't know, you name it. And all these people are sitting there and they're going along for the story. And then the guy shuts up and they're all sitting there saying, what was that about? You know, he got our attention. You know, he got our attention. But and then there's somebody saying, well, he was telling, you know, let me explain to you what he was saying. You know, he was saying that you should really be a better person. Oh, wow. Good. Why didn't you just say that in the first place? You know, save all that storytelling. Well, I went down to the sea. You know, I was in the desert. Who gives a fuck? You know? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Forty days and forty nights. Give me a break. I don't need the story. What happened, Harry? You know, did something interesting happen? Get to the point. Right? No. It's one way of selling. You know, how many gurus sit and, you know, and everybody's going, well, what did he say? It must have been important. I mean, after all, he said it. You know? Okay, so you say. The sixty two. Let's go to the other side. Just the facts, ma'am. Just the facts. Caution, patience and detail produce excellence at a limitation. Right? Do you ever watch shopping TV? See, I'm a surfer. I watch everything. And I've got five shopping channels that I can peruse. And they have this interesting thing. They have a panel on the side of the screen. And the panel gives you what it is, gives you the price, and it gives you a whole list of things that it is. You know, it's got this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this. And these are people that sell you something on detail. You know, it's like you go in. It's like me, you know? I go in to buy something. Basically, I'm an impulsive individual. You know, I'll just buy it. You know, I see it. I buy it. I have sort of an idea of what it is. But if you've got a salesperson that comes up to me and starts rambling off all the things that it is, I want to choke them to death. You know? I mean, it's like, it's like going in to buy a car. I don't want to know how it works. I don't. I don't care. I don't want to know what, what, how many miles to the gallon, you know, how many different positions the seat goes in. I mean, I've actually had a car salesman spend 10 minutes telling me about the wonders of the seat, the seat. I don't give a fuck. Is it comfortable? You know? Yeah, it moves this way, moves this way, moves this way, and you can go this, and you can do that, and you can do that. Does it drive? You know? I mean, will it take over for me? You know, it's like people who will tell you about their computer and they won't say he or she is fine. They will say, well, I've got 3,216 and I've got this and it's got an 18 PPS and it's got a 1944 and the DRAM is like over there and the RAM is over here. And they go on and on and on. And the thing that's amazing is they sell consumer books. Have you ever seen consumer comparison books? I mean, it's a big thing in America, eh? That is, you've got a book and they put, you know, toasters. One would think that a toaster is a toaster is a toaster, right? They have 780 toasters that they compare through 75 categories. I mean, there are people who won't buy a toaster unless they read that magazine. They're on it, on it, on it, oh, I'm going to... Oh, it's incredible. And you can only sell them that way. You can't be a 56 and say, I had this, I had this thing with my toaster. You know? Every time, every time, every, you know, you can't do that. You go and you're, well, that's there, that's there, that's there, you know. And so if you want to sell the facts, there are people who will buy only that... You know, basically I buy a computer on looks. I mean, seriously, folks, you know, I have my limitations. You know, that's a pretty one. What the hell do I know about how it works? I don't know. You know, I find out a month later that it doesn't have a function I needed. You know, and then I have to pretend that I know when I'm asking for, when I tell the person that I need this function. And they talk to me in a language that's for detail people. I don't know what they're talking about. They say, well, do you have a UBS? I don't know. I don't even know what that's supposed to mean. I think they're insulting me most of the time, you know. I don't know. Facts. Sell them the facts. See, there are, one third of human design market is made up of explaining that there are eight billion things you can do with this knowledge. And they're happy. Oh, look. The third line is discovery. A genius for the unusual. Found in the details. You know, I mean, selling details is such a trip, eh? And you can lie so good with details. I mean, you can lie so good. You know, let me give you the details of my business plan. Oh, oh, oh. You know, it's one of these books that's 785 pages long. It's filled with every detail conceivable to man, and none of it has ever paid any attention to. But you sell it right away. Wow, is that ever detailed? I can't even run my TV anymore. You get a manual like this. You know, you got your remote control in your hand. Oh, money's funny. Oh, Lord. Can I go yet? I may not get it back. Oh, Lord. There's nothing like the 4323. The 23rd gate. The 23rd gate is explanation. Amorality. Amorality. See, business is immoral. I mean, there's, you know, it's not a moral enterprise, and it's there in the 23rd gate. It tells you very clearly, you know, this is not about morality. It isn't, you know, where the weak are killed and eaten. You know, it's not about morality. You know, kill the competition. They're weak. Stamp on them. You know, eliminate them. Ain't no morality. The awareness and understanding which leads to the acceptance of diversity. The third line is about individuality. It's about the independent expression that is not by its nature detrimental to others. By its nature, it's not detrimental. In its practice, it may be. Very clearly, it may be. And it's one of the things to see is that you cannot be morally based to be caught in the new. You have to have a different kind of openness to be caught in the new. Because when the new comes in, it's like people in the very beginning who said to me about human design, it was dangerous, but they meant it in a very negative sense. You know, the secret police, the CIA. You know, they immediately got into a moral question about it. And moral questions about people who deserved the knowledge or didn't. You know, moral questions about who should do this and who should, you know, and on and on and on what this really means. You know, people who were upset that there were detriments, you know, all that stuff. Vitality and personal power that can engender jealousy but not threat. And you know, this is one of the things about success is that success creates jealousy. It does. It breeds jealousy. I mean, I know that. I lived in a tree here. And I have friends of mine who were friends of mine when I lived in a tree and their life hasn't improved much better than that. And mine has. Very different. Some of them doesn't make any difference to them. Others, it does. Success is something that will always naturally breed jealousy. And the jealousy leads to a moral statement. And the moral statement is, why them? Why not me? Why them? And they're not better than me. So why should they get it? And you get into all of this moral stuff and you get into all the basic jealousy and all of the stuff that goes with it. And it's one of these things about the nature of bringing the new into the world. Is that when you bring the new into the world, you're also destroying other things. In the end, human design will do to astrology what Rome did to Carthage. It's just the way it is. And I'm sorry, there's a lot of people for a lot of millennia who have taken great joy in that knowledge. And yet all things pass. And it's not about this or that. It's just the way things are. And it's the way things work. So it's something to understand about the expression of the new. And the risks that come with introducing the new is that the old feels threatened. Think about the people who were making fax machines. Jesus. I mean, wow, that didn't last long. I mean, yes, people still have faxes. But it's like the people that invested in 8-track tapes. I mean, wow, whack, whack, whack. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Life goes on. And how they resented the new technologies. I can remember the arguments about how listening to a long playing record with a needle with dust on it, with grooves that have been worked over a few times, that somehow that was better fidelity than you were going to get with some digital recording. They were always saying, oh, but digital recordings are flat. And so many musician friends of mine are saying, no, no, no, we've got to do it on tape. It's flat when it's digital. That'd give me a break. You know. There is this deep resentment to the new because the new creates problems. If you bring globalization to a country, if you bring a new way of organizing business and affairs, old ways are destroyed, which means people lose their jobs. It means their lives get a certain amount of dislocation. It means the way in which their society as a whole function is transformed. It's not like everybody, you know, this is the whole thing about the new. The moment that the new emerges, it's very, very attractive, but it can become, if it survives, very threatening, very threatening, very threatening to all the things in the anarchistic sense that with a more morality can be destroyed. It's not like Billy Gates was sitting there saying, oh, gee, it's not right to replace the typewriter. You know, give me a break. You know, or to replace all the typewriter manufacturers. You know, whatever happened to Remington? What happened to Remington Rand? You know, where did they go? You know, the typewriter world is gone. Very short-lived, by the way. Boom and bust. In a time of the new, wow, things come and go quickly. You know, think about all of those new personalities that emerge. You know, again, the throat center, all these new personalities that emerge. You know, the one-hit person. You know, people who had number one songs. You know, if I collected all the number one songs over the last 50 years from one-hit people, most of us wouldn't know who the hell they were. Don't even remember who they were. You know, and this is the world of business in the 21st century. You know, you can really see that to find continuity and depth is very difficult. You know, you have to have a really, really, really good product. You have to have a really, really, really good service. And after all, the oldest business is service. After all, the oldest business is service. And it's the one thing that we've been able to constantly renew until we get to a point where we even say we're living in a service society. A service-oriented society where so many people are making money and where so many people are making their living out of services. So, you know, when you're dealing with the new, you must recognize something that when the new finally is able to manifest, when the new is finally able to be explained to the whole, and when the new takes hold, that there is going to be moral resistance. I mean, human design has yet to meet the moral resistance of religion yet. Wait. I mean, we'll all see it. We'll all see it. It's going to emerge, because human design now is really breaking through into the collective consciousness, and it will eventually get to that point where the paranoia will start. You know, this is a threat. This is a threat to psychology. This is a threat to holistic healing. This is a threat. It's a threat. You know, it's a threat to certain esoteric areas. It's a threat. You know, and ultimately, it's a threat to, you know, the spiritual, mystical, religious infrastructures. Then the moment they begin to see that it's not just one of the things on one of the pages of one of the magazines, when it begins to become something that begins to dominate, you wait and see the morality that will come out. You know, wow, this isn't good. How can this be good? You know, look at this guy who brought it. That's all, folks.
