A Manual for No Fault Living

A Guide to Working with from The Book of Letters

It was surprising to me, how many people were made uncomfortable by the "black box" of the Human Design System when it is was published in 1992. In the west particularly,there seems to be a deep unease with all things black. The Human Design System, like our universe. is a duality. T"ereis nothing more harmonious than the Yin I Yang symbol. Light and darkness in dynamic tension, is the essence of life itself. from The Book of Letters, is, as you can see, a "white book." It is the essential polarity to the revelation of the Human Design System.

I always remind my students that the "Voice" gave me the knowledge of the mechanics of the system .. but not how to use ;it. In Design, we see that we are the rnos\~ d\~ply conditioned and potentially made wise by what we don't have or in the language of Design, wherewe are not defined. Of the major circuits, I have the least activation in the Sensing circuit. The abstract process, rooted in its format of cyclical energy, with its emotional crisis and intellectual belief systems was for most of my life a provocation. Design has taught me the value of not identifying with what is not me. Through this awareness, I have come to discover the beauty and importance of the abstract process in my life. Where we' are undefined, is where we can have our most profound learning experiences.

33: Retreat "I remember'. The Channel of the Witnessl

41: Decrease The Fuel to Feel. The Channel of Recognition through Feelings

This book is dedicated to my students With good reason, they demanded it They wanted more information about the System. The black book was a revelation, in essence, it left the students in exactly the same position I was left in, when the 'Yoice' was gone. They wanted to tap into my experience. This is the vaste cultural va lue ofthe Sensing Circuit. The potential to reflect on the past In the early Winter of 1994,' I began to write this book, driven by the feeling that It must be done. I rode the energy of this feeling and by April, 1994, it was finished. I prepared a Draft Manuscript and made it available.

Bringing the Human Design System into the world is both hard work and a continuing education. The feeling which produced the first draft, was an energy. No choice, my Arien nature could not wait Ah patience, it is the greatest of teachers. I returned to this work humbled by my haste and moved by how far my knowledge of DeSign had grown. The 41st gate in genetics Is the only initiator Codon. It begins all processes. It is a hunger. At the end of·the abstract process is the 33rd gate, the gate of Privacy, secrets and retreat. It is the rememberance possible at the end of a cycle.

One of the gifts of Human Design is to be able to recognize and understand not only your individual nature but the personal cyles that are at work in your life. This knowledge,fitting for a logic system demands investigation. The average student, so enthused with their new found ability become quickly absorbed in looking into the Raves of everyone in their lives. I counsel the individuals I train, to concentrate on themselves and their own life and conditioning, first The investigation of the personal cycle is so revealing.

In surrender, evdrything has its time in the program. The program, like the programming of our genetic material is in the 'Hands of the Gods'. It is amusing to me, reflecting on my own process, that I have come to honour these Gods, the Sun and Earth, the Moon and her Nodes, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto. We and our gobal life are the result of their collective handiwork. This is, of course, an anthropomorphization. These are not the Roman Gods. The program is about Neutrinos, the 'light that is heavy', the sub-atomic information stream, generated by our Sun and all the stars in the universe and filtered by these planets.

However, after nearly nine years of working with the Human Design System and experiencing, in the awareness of my own mechanics, the direct effect of these objects on my life, I have come to taste their difference. They are personalized within my own nature. My unique understanding of the "coloring" of the trans-Saturnian planets, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto, is rooted in intimate contact, with my own Design as the medium of communication. In Design, one's connection to a planet is not abstract.

One of the most significant aspects of Human Design, is that the Data Base, the position of the Planets, natally (Personality) and pre-natally (Design), activate a function within the body. If you have an undefined Throat center and a planet in its movement around the zodiac comes to a position where it activates and defines the Throat, in your sudden capacity to verbalize is the "coloring' of that Planet. You can hear it in your voice and what the voice says through that planate conditioning. Different planets, activating the same connection, will bring a different quality to the expression. Through patience and study, these differences become the basis of understanding at a personal, intimate level, the "nature" of these individual forces.

Everything is moving. The Sun and Earth do not stand still. My mystical process began twelve years ago. Twelve years is the Jupitarian cycle around the zodiac. Jupiter, the teacher, putting me through my paces. I am "Jupitarian" by nature and through Design, have come to recognize the deep impact that this force has on my life. This work is the culmination of a Jupiter cycle. I have been a writer for most of my life and anyone who has ever had contact with my work, knows that I never bother to correct my spelling. What to do? I have my Personality Saturn in the 7th gate, in the line of the Anarchist. At the end of this Jupiter Cycle, involved in the most important work of my life, finds Jupiter in the 9th gate: The Taming Power of the  Small, the gate of energy for detail. I've never been so obsessed with editing. It's not my nature. It is the conditioning of Jupiter. I feel the presence and my own annoyance at having to go back over "old ground" and correct the errors of my Arien speed. We never can escape conditioning. I surrender to the beneficence of Jupiter. All hail Zeus! (Undiscovered errors that you may find are the result of the 3rd line.)

The capacity to assemble current Human Design information into this book has taken a year-and -a-half. Practically nothing remains, of the original manuscript that was written in 1994 but it formed a necessary foundation. The Understanding circuit, which governs our logic systems, demands "p\~ctice." For me, the most important aspect was my fi\~nally surrendering to Computers. If not for the "Voice," and my fire nature, I'm sure, I would have continued a life lone abstinence. After doing countless drawings of Rave Charts by hand (by the way, still the best way to start working in Design), I dreamed of having a computer program. It took many years and I am very grateful to the programming effort of Erik. Memmert, who created the Neutrinos through Windows program. That's when acquired my first computer.

I started to use it as a typewriter but the main attraction was related to calculating Rave Charts. Understanding your own nature is fundamental in this science. I am a knower by design. All of my single definition is related to the individual process and the Knowing circuit. Knowers don't listen well. They are here to say "I know" not "They know." It is very difficult to get their attention. Theyareatways trying to get yours and extremely difficult to teach them as a result e, I got the inclination to explore the possibilities of this strange machine, I needed assistance. To begin with, I was computer illiterate and my machine only functioned in German. Meine GOte.

In readings, when dealing with individual Designs, I always emphasize the need to be simple. As a teacher throughout my life, I have striven to reduce the complex and obscure, to the simple. Everything can be reduced to the basic binary. In surrender, I have come to witness the beauty of geometry. One afternoon, an old friend of JOrgen Saupe, my Publisher, stepped into my room to say hello. His only definition was the Channel of Initiation. Seeing me staring blankly into my computer, he suggested that he could show me some things. I had been through that process before and it was simply infuriating. To know does not mean you can teach. Before I could demure, he began. In 15 minutes, the entire veil had been lifted. It was one of the best teachings in my life. Just the ABC's but that's what everything is about.

This opened the door to illustrating my work. Human Design and the Rave Body Graph are all about graphics. Design is a visual science. "What you see is what you get." The illustrations that are used in this text took half-a-year of intense concentration to develop. Already, they have inspired two works, this book and Rave Anatomy Mapping the Mechanics of the Mara.

A very important ingredient in preparing this volume was my experience with the Human Design School. The difference between the quality of the teaching, when Jurgen Saupe and I began the School in 1992 and what a course offers today is embarrassing. I first had to learn the Human Design System and then I had to learn how to teach it. It is this teaching experience which is translated into the structure of this book.

So with the The Under Shamash Image Bank developed, and locked away in seclusion which my Design demands and after the refinement of my teaching, the thousands of personal readings aneJ the inspiration of students of Design, from The Book of Letters has evolved into its present state. A clear and precise guide to the Human Design System and a true complement to the "black book."

About from The Book of Letters

from The Book of Letters, is divided in half, which is fitting for a dualistic system. AYi" section which is theoretical and aYang section, which is practical..It is in essence two different books. The Yin is a library of Human Design basic information. It is the reference section and will continue to be of value as a resource book, long after one has mastered Design Analysis.

To be able to. do Rave Chart Analysis requires a deep familiarity with the basics, the hexagram gates, the centers, the channels and most important the nature of Rave Body Graph circuitry. Without this knowledge, analysis is not possible. Any student wishing to learn The Human Design System, must begin in this Yin section to familiarize themselves with the fundamentals before opening up the Yang section which is the application of the knowledge. For example, it is very important to read through all of the hexagram gates. In the Rave Body Graph circuitry, groupings of hexagrams are related to each other through, firstly, defining a channel together, and secondly, by being a part of one of the six circuits. Part Three of the Yin section, gives a detailed description of each of the hexagrams according to circuit. Familiarizing yourself with the hexagrams in this way is of great benefit in being able to do Rave Analysis.

The Yang section is the actual Guide to Human Design Analysis. It takes you step by step through the process and is clearly illustrated. It follows the structure of the Human Design School Basic Training program. It will continue to be necessary to refer to the Yin section for background.