The point at which decline has exhausted its power. The ability to establish a new order out of the ashes of the old.

The emotional depth to endure crisis and embrace change. And it's one of the things to understand is that everything, truly everything is there and transition is natural. It's natural. Don't be afraid in time. You know, it's like people when the market goes down, they start selling like mad. You know, you get this huge sell-off and then you get a sell-off that's incredible. I mean, right now stocks in the world are so underpriced, it's unbelievable. I mean, stocks that never should have been underpriced are underpriced. Because there's this panic that comes with decline. And yet decline is natural.

It's natural. It's the emotional wave. Business is an emotional wave. It's what it is. I know I'm unemotional.

You know, I know. You can feel the business wave. I watch business programming on television every day. Every day I watch business programming. It's like, you know, take out the ephemeris, watch business programming and watch it particularly over the last couple of years when we've had all this emotional definition. You get all this emotional volatility in the markets. It's all emotional. I mean, it's emotional. The thing to recognize is because it's emotional, you have these moments of the bubble and the glory and everybody is high as hell.

This is just the up emotional wave. And then you have this moment where it's all going down and everybody's gloom and doom, you know. Well, the war isn't going well. Sell more, you know, and on and on and on and on and on. Decline is natural. It's not a crisis. It's a process.

If you go through times of decline, you will enjoy again the flowering at the other end.

And because it's a generated environment, almost all of the quitting, almost all of the destruction of valid enterprises come in moments of decline. When the pessimism takes over, how can I get through this? How can I do this? And without guidance, they cannot. And that guidance isn't just business guidance. It's psychological guidance. It's about their spirit.

It's about understanding the mechanics of the life force. It's about seeing it's always going to be like that. I remember my first summer in human design. Everybody knows human design is very funny. Summers, summers are really dead.

You know, and I remember my first summer, you know, I got to May and all of a sudden everything. Began to disappear. It was like, oh my God, you know, and then you just, well, you know, you live your life, you know, you get to the other side and it all comes up again. And in the end, you get to chart it like an emotional person does when they see all the waves and valleys together to make their clarity.

You can see the clarity then. So ride the wave. And don't be afraid of the valleys. The valleys are very important. They're very important. The 22nd game.

It is absolutely the key, the key in the success of anything new in the world is the ability to be able to hear what people really want.

To know what people really want.

Oh, this is wonderful. You know, this line of the 22, the third line, the enchanter.

Oh, when you know what they want. I mean, perfume companies have been making a fortune off of this.

They know what you want. You want to be perceived and accepted as beautiful and mysterious and carrying the feminine mystique, the whatever it is, you know, all the stuff that's in the passion. You know what they want. You know, and you sell that mystique, but you have to know what they want to sell it to them.

You have to know what they want. So you know how to bring the new to them. You know how to integrate the new as a mutation.

You know how to bring the new as a style. And it's all about making sure that you listen. Listen to the client. Listen to the customer. Listen to the general public.

Listen to them. I have always had one ear open to the popular culture.

I listen. Listen.

You know, it's like the client who comes to a reading. You know, I've listened over the years and now I know what they want.

They want an answer they can use right away. It's what they want. They want an answer they can use right away. It's what they want. You give them what they want. If you give them what they want, they'll take it. This is what individuals know.

You see, I could not have brought you to this knowledge through playing you my song. Which is the romance in me and the artist in me.

Or through my drawings.

You know, I had to do it logically as a teacher. I took advantage of my logical activations. I took advantage of logic in order to bring my knowing across to you.

Because as a teacher, I've learned to recognize that in listening to the demands of my students, and I'm going back to long before I taught human design as a teacher, they wanted to be able to understand what I was teaching them.

That's all. And to make it fun. And as you know, I do my best to do both. You know, to make it entertaining. To help you understand. To get the joy and the pleasure out of the knowledge and so forth and so on.

So very important in the 22. Form as a definition and actualization of substance. The possibility for perfected openness. The possibility for perfected openness. The possibility for perfected openness. Through the alignment of emotional energy and awareness.

Or simply unconscious grace.

The grace to be a listener. Very, very important. If you're going to run a business, you've got to listen to the people who work for you.

You've got to listen to the people who work with you.

Listening doesn't mean you obey.

This is not tribal. This is about empowerment. I am empowered by my students. My students are empowered by me. It's a listening business.

You know, it's listening.

And if you're going to sell this, if you're going to sell knowing, if you're going to sell what's new. Remember expediency. Remember that you have to be able to accommodate.

You have to find a way to get there. And one of the ways in which you can get there is, you know, by listening to what they want, you give them what they want. Sort of. The sixth gate.

The fundamental design component of progress. The law that growth cannot exist without friction. It's one of the best designs, best descriptions of the Sex Act I've ever written.

The law that growth cannot exist without friction.

The law that growth cannot exist without friction.

The law that growth cannot exist without friction. Isn't that a great line? Okay.

You know, the biological association of the six gate is pH.

And it's one of the things about the nature of the channel of intimacy is that the channel of intimacy is about the ability to be able to move through barriers.

To be able to break down barriers.

So the sperm penetrates the egg, you know, the breaking down of barriers in order for growth to be able to take place.

And everything about, everything about entering into the, into the material plane is about breaking into markets.

You know, it's about establishing your presence.

It's about getting through there.

It's about breaking through the barrier. It's about getting to the place where you're recognized. All of those things that go on when you're introducing or you're bringing some kind of material into the world.

When you look at the third line of the six gates, you come to the line of allegiance.

It says the ability to secure support and to create strength out of a weak position.

And when connected to the harmonic gate 59, mating the results in conception. All right.

Now look. If you're trying to break down a barrier, you're always in a weak position when you're alone.

The only way you can break down the barrier is that you've got to be able to reach the person on the other side.

That's the only way that you can turn a weak position into a strength.

The only way you can turn a weak position into a strength.

The only way that you can make a sale is that you have to have contact with the person you want to sell and you have to sell them.

I mean, it sounds obvious, but it's something really important to understand.

In other words, that the real success in business is breaking down the barrier.

The barrier between you and the other.

Advertising, for example, is very good at doing that.

It helps soften the barriers. You know, it makes them less rigid.

If you have something new, you go through a process of breaking down the barrier. The destruction of old forms through union, either mundane as above, sexual union, or exalted as universalization.

The depth of feelings that can enrich union and intimacy.

It's also about sensitivities to control and rejection.

The rejection of allegiance as submission to the law of the universe.

The rejection of the law of the universe.

The rejection of the law of the universe. The rejection of the law of the universe. The rejection of the law of the universe. The rejection of the law of the universe, but USC said we don't have toouch the law of the universe.

We're allowed to also because it is a religion where at the end of a folly live a lifelong relationship.

It is a feeling where at the end of it there is no good sound that comes from anyone start at previous life or in the next life or whatever.

It's fundamentally about establishing roles of the yin and the yang.

It's about establishing the way in which we bond, what we need from each other.

That the passive needs the active and so forth and so on.

That this forming of allegiance fails the moment that the allegiance is controlled.

The moment that the allegiance is voluntary, that's the moment that growth is possible.

In other words, my comment about the 49, that you can try to pay for loyalty, but it doesn't mean you're going to get it.

You can get it some of the time.

You can get it when it's not tested. You know, everybody will accept money for being loyal as long as they're not tested.

I mean, after all, that's money for nothing. You know, and only when they're tested, it's like all of these soldiers, you know, I mean, they're...

They were just making a living. It's not like they're all monsters. They were just making a living.

People with jobs, people with families, you know, they'll take the money as long as it's not tested, as long as the loyalty isn't put to the test.

But if they have to give up their lives, whoa, baby, whoa.

And one of the things to recognize, because this is so deeply connected with mating, is that the moment that one partner tries to assert control over the other, the relationship is doomed and the bond will be broken.

And it's the deepest understanding of coming together with the other.

And you see, the thing is not to control the client, but to form an allegiance with the client so that the client treats you as family. I mean, it's an allegiance, you know. It's an alignment to and an acceptance of, but based on mutual respect, based on value in the relationship for both sides, based on not being controlled, based on not being put to a financial loyalty test, because it will fail.

Can I leave the solar plex?

No, I can't.

I tell you, I think they're all sixes today.

The 37th game.

Ah, family, oh, how sweet.

You know, being a 40, I've been doing 37 selling for years, you know.

The manifestation macro and microcosmically of the organic nature of communities.

And this is the way that you sell, and you sell to feed the stomach.

The 37th game.

Feed the stomach.

It's the basis of the material pressure.

Remember the theme of food.

You know, one of the real pleasures of wealth, the first pleasure of wealth, is food.

The second pleasure of wealth is space. You know, these are basic things.

You know, the unique territory, the territory of the 19, you know, the pressure to have your own territory, the pressure to have the resources, the pressure to be able to share at the table, the pressure to be able to fill your stomach and the stomachs of your family consistently.

And the basic theme of this is that it's done through even-handedness.

The success of any group is dependent on maintaining order.

Order.

You see, ideally, and this is a problem that we have in modern society, you can see that through the 37th game, the clan polices itself.

Now we've seen we have difficulties with that. Doctors, for example, police themselves.

And we get to see that a lot of doctors who are bad doctors continue to practice because the doctors who police themselves don't want to give themselves a bad reputation.

And you know, there's problems when you're policing yourself.

You know, there's a problem when all of the accountants are being policed by only accountants.

You know, we're seeing this arise now in various business dilemmas.

And it is something to recognize.

The clan structure wants this.

You know, the basic OC16 is about maintaining order through the mutual acceptance of policing.

And it's only out of the 37th gate that we ever got police departments.

You know, people who were paid in the tribe, you know, to be the police for the tribe.

And those were the only people you would accept their authority.

Again, look at Baghdad.

You know, they had all this looting in Baghdad.

So, you know, in the last couple of days, what you have is the military making arrangements with the old police force to go back on the streets and do their job because they're tribal police.

They're their own.

They speak their own language.

They will respect their authority and their position.

So it's one of the basic things about the tribe.

This even handedness is that they will not accept outside policing.

You know, when the outside people come in to investigate the clan, oh boy.

You know, the clan's very police will fight them.

So we have seen.

The ability to judge what behavior is appropriate and to react in a balanced manner to transgressions In other words, all organizations need to be policed.

They just do.

They just do.

You know, and of course there's a...

You know, you have people that sell company owners computer programs to watch the computers of all the employees so that they're not going online and having fun.

And the 37th Gate is all about the restriction of pleasure.

Controlling pleasure.

Restricting pleasure.

Keep everybody in control.

And of course one of the things you get out of that is that because it's a family, you're always going to have somebody in that family who's always going to try to break all the rules.

It's normal.

You always have somebody who's going to break all the rules.

It's normal.

And you know, the family doesn't normally kill its own.

The clan is generally generous.

But you know, again, it's one of the basic principles of the way in which the clan operates.

It polices itself and it's always going to have problems.

The Martian aspect, the ironic tendency to either test incessantly the borders of acceptability or to respond to the very same tendency in others with severity.

You know, the possible lack of sensitivity to what behavior is appropriate.

And of course everything about being able to operate correctly in business is about what is appropriate.

You know, as a mad mystic, I can have inappropriate behavior that wouldn't look good in a boardroom.

You know, I mean, poor Peter.

You know, the idea of bringing me to some board in London.

You bring in this dope smoking weirdo.

You know, and you got all these guys tuckered into their fuzzy suits and their ties and you know, their...

Oh shit.

Just not appropriate behavior.

You know, how embarrassing to have to explain that to me.

Well, you know, Ra, we would have to dress you up.

We would have to really make you look sort of presentable.

And do get your fucking teeth fixed.

You know, I mean, after all.

Can I leave the emotions now?

Let me go to the other side.

Let me go to where I come from.

You know, the 40th gate, the gate of denial.

This will never work.

You have no idea how many times in my not self life that people would tell me something and I would automatically say, that will never work.

Really.

You know, I had no idea, because I had no idea who I was, had no idea how devastating that was for them.

They would come with their twinkly little idea.

And I hated stupid ideas.

And I would say to them, it's never going to work.

You idiot.

It's never going to work. Who's going to buy that shit?

You know, poor people.

The point of transition between struggle and liberation. Funny comment.

You can't feed the stomach without the willingness to work.

And the willingness to work, not because one truly wants to work, or is designed to work, but the discovery of that you can love work.

You know, 40th gate is the gate of love.

It's the gate of loving work.

The potential to love work or hate work.

All ego people in essence love or hate work.

And it's based on the not self.

The not self of the open heart center is, I have to prove myself.

I have to prove myself. I have to prove myself.

I've got something to prove.

I have to prove it.

You know, my joke about my defined ego was here to prove human design is healthy.

You know, if you have an undefined ego and you're trying to prove human design, you're doing damage to yourself.

Don't prove it.

You've got nothing to prove. You know, do whatever you do, except a limitation. And of course proving yourself is something that is enormously productive.

You know, because 65% of humanity have open ego centers, heart centers.

You know, so you've got an enormous potential to be able to deal with people who need to be motivated, who need to be valued, who need to be pumped up, who need to be blah, blah, blah, on and on and on.

So, you know, this is something to understand.

The real power inherent in the 40th gate.

You know, is all about getting to this point that, you know, you're selling people.

You're selling people a way to prove themselves.

You prove themselves through excelling in your work.

And through excelling in your work, you'll see that people appreciate you.

You know, and so you have all these people that are trying to prove themselves in their jobs.

They're trying to prove how good they are even though they're poorly paid.

You know, they're trying to prove themselves in jobs they don't even like.

You know, going through all of that process.

Third line is humility, a calculated mode in deliverance to avoid attracting the attention of negative forces.

You know, humility.

To be of value is truly humbling.

You know, for me, as a very powerful ego being, I've only had one humbling experience in my life.

It's when I met The Voice.

True humility for me, I mean just for me.

The recognition of smallness, unimportance.

And at the same time, in that humility, being given something worthy of proving.

Great gift for me to have actually been of value.

You know, this is one of the things that I truly wish for all of you.

Is to get to that place where you go through your cycle, your chemical cycle, your biological seven year cycle.

You enter into your second cycle.

You slowly move into your character and suddenly your role takes over.

You know, when you suddenly see that you're a person who's been through a lot of things.

When you suddenly see that you're being used well.

We're all here to be used.

And I don't mean that in a negative way at all.

Please see that.

It's only in the not self, it's only in ignorance that being used sounds ugly.

The Voice used me.

I've been used by the forces, but I've been used well.

I like it.

I have enjoyed being used well.

I will continue to be used well.

This is worthiness.

And it's one of the most important things to understand is that you will not find true humility.

True humility.

Until you find your worthiness.

We all have value.

Some of us have to prove it, like me.

Others don't.

Most don't.

And this is one of the ugliest traps of all.

You know, prove to your family that you can quit this or that or the other thing.

Prove to your boss that you can do this or that or the other thing.

Prove, prove, prove, prove, prove.

And more than that, the expression of the open heart center through the mental plane.

How powerful the not self is when it grabs hold of the open heart.

When 65% of humanity have an open heart, it becomes an aspect of almost everybody's not self behavior.

A whole planet of people trying to prove themselves.

And it's so unhealthy.

And a whole planet of people marketing self help.

Marketing valuation.

You know, marketing all of that.

Remember, the ego needs to be massaged.

And through the 40th gate, it needs affection.

Affection.

Oh, what a guru gate this is.

You know?

Love me, love me, love me.

You know.

And I will make you feel worthy.

Just in your very act of loving me, you become worthy.

Heavy fucking trip.

I don't have that line, but you know, gee.

Okay.

Let's go to the 26th.

We live in a time, a dangerous time, a deeply dangerous time because of this gate.

You know, whenever you think of the 26th gate, think of T-cells.

If you think that an Abrams tank is frightening, you should meet a T-cell on its scale.

It would eat that Abrams alive.

You know?

And Pluto is in the 26th gate.

This is the gate of the warrior.

Warrior trickster.

The T-cell kills to defend.

To defend.

That's what it does.

Nothing kills the competition better than a super salesman.

Okay?

The killer.

They're even described that way.

You know?

Ah, this one's a killer.

Super salesman.

For the next 100 years, we are going to know nothing but war.

Next 100 years.

Every day now, every day for the next three years, children come into the world.

40,000 every hour.

Children come into the world.

And what they're carrying with them is the 26th gate with Pluto there.

We are entering into the age of what I call global civil war.

Global civil war is the war between the future and the past.

Between the 22nd century and the 12th century.

Between globalization and fundamentalism.

And every child that is being born now is going to carry this energy for the rest of their lives.

We've had 100 year wars before.

We know them.

We've never had them globally.

So the 26th gate is quite a piece of business.

The maximization of the power of memory applied to the nurturing of continuity.

The maximization of the power of memory.

No greater gate of bullshit.

No greater gate of bullshit than the 26th gate.

The gate of the trickster.

I tell you, I can sell anything.

And I have.

I've sold it all.

I'm the archetypal Jupiter in 26.

I have sold everything.

You name it, I'll sell it.

26th gate.

You know, this is the trickster.

You know?

Trickster.

You know?

How do you think selling works?

You see, the tribe sells differently from the collective or the individual.

You know, the collective has its collection of data.

The details on one side, the story on the other side.

The individual is obsessed and, you know, rushing around trying to convince you.

But the tribe, the tribe lies.

It's easier.

I mean, why do you go into all that trouble?

Just lie.

Yeah, 99-year guarantee.

Right.

Okay.

Yeah, we lie.

You think our company is going to last 99 years?

You idiot.

Who do you think is going to service that down?

You know, lying is really good.

It works.

You know?

This microwave oven is better than all the other microwave ovens that were ever built.

Ever.

You know?

This is better, better, better.

This is not new and improved, remember.

This is not new and improved.

This is better.

This is best.

And you know who they sell?

Their relatives.

Have you ever noticed that in a village?

You know, you come into the village.

You know, there's the tribal salesman who is the cousin of the aunt of your brother Henry.

And if you don't buy it, you're fucked.

You know?

It's just the way it works.

And the moment you buy it, you know, you become the testimonial.

She bought it.

You should have it too.

Otherwise, Henry's going to be really angry with Margaret, who's going to tell George, who's going to tell Luis, and I'm in trouble.

You know, this is the movie.

Look at the line.

It says, the ability once prepared to gather support.

The authority to focus communal effort.

The power of the ego to gather support.

Gather support.

And you gather support by...

Let's not be cruel and call it lying.

Let's call it exaggerating.

You know, that's really what it is.

Exaggerating.

You know, it's like these people who have telephone offices with fancy addresses.

Great lie.

Just sort of...

Yes, well, it's a very well-established address, you know.

It's a postage box, you fool.

Don't you get that?

It's just a little trick.

You know?

It's like George Bush saying, we have 40 countries backing us.

Some of them are islands so small in the Pacific that they've already moved to Australia because they're going to disappear.

You know?

Yeah, right.

Okay.

Let's leave that behind.

I don't want to impugn my own reputation.

Let's talk about the bitchy gate.

Let's get to the 21.

Let's get to the story here.

The justified and necessary use of power in overcoming deliberate and persistent interference.

You don't do your job, you die.

Oh, gee, shit.

You know, the 21st Gate is the gate of control.

So one of the things about the nature of the gate of control is what it's really here to sell.

It's here to sell real estate.

It's here to sell clothing.

And it's here to sell food.

And the moment that you deal with the 21st Gate that way, you can really prove yourself.

I mean, you can.

You know, if you want to be a successful real estate agent, you'll do very well through the 21st Gate.

You can.

You know, because the 21st Gate is about where you live, what you eat, and what you wear.

And of course, you can see how much business we do that way and how we try to control our society that way.

You know, how do you go into one of those suburbs where every other house is exactly the same?

Exactly the same.

You know, and you've got to sell that.

You know, what you're selling is community.

Yes, it looks similar to their house.

No, you can't paint it a different color.

Don't you dare be different.

And this goes back to family Penta stuff.

Don't you dare be different.

You're going to fit into the hole.

And once we have you here, we've got you controlled.

You're going to go to the same supermarket as us.

You're going to have the same limitations in your diet as we do.

Your children better dress appropriately.

And you'll go to the same shops to buy your clothes and so forth and so on.

And the thing to recognize about the 21 is that in pretty much most of the world, its day is over in the sense that this was the epitome of the company town.

I don't know if you know that it started in England, actually, Industrial Revolution.

Is that when they built factories, they brought people in to live there.

You know, and they actually had their own currency.

They had their own shops.

They had their own everything.

In America, the turn of the 19th into the 20th century, they had huge company towns where they didn't even use American money.

They used company script.

You know, that everything you bought, you had to buy within that.

And everybody, you know, dressed the same, worked the same hours, kids went to the same, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.

This is the control mechanism of multi-clan.

Multi-clan.

This makes the 2145 always different.

You know, because what they're dealing with is the tribe.

And most of the streams that you see within the tribal circuitry, most of this is clan oriented that is oriented to the OC 16 to the 16 person level.

But the moment you get to the 21, you get to a larger organizational capacity.

In other words, it's looking at how you bound the clans together so that they form a coherent tribe.

And all tribes are built on clans.

All of them.

You can see that some tribal societies never got to be tribal because the clans became too feralful in themselves.

And never really came together as a tribe.

And it's the 21 that pulls it all together as a tribe.

Powerlessness is the theme.

Where the just are condemned to a futile confrontation with superior forces, defeat as a survivable humiliation, often acceptable through the abuse of drugs and alcohol.

Now, I love that.

If you're a 21 and you're trying to control the clan, you're going to be so depressed.

So depressed.

You are designed to control the tribe, not the clan.

And by controlling the tribe, that means getting the clans to agree with each other.

And all of this is about how the territory works, how the order works within the territory.

Selling control.

Selling control.

And the 21 can only be a value.

Remember that the 21 has six lines, it's chaos.

It can be so chaotic because it gets pulled into clan business when in fact it's deeply, deeply, deeply tribal and works best at the level of being tribal.

And to finish, see there's only four gates in the heart center.

And I figured that out.

You know, here I am, the third gate in the ego that's mine.

I have to go through this process of egoizing.

The 51st gate.

The ability to respond to disorder and shock through recognition and adaptation.

The ability to respond to disorder and shock.

You know, fifth line being, everything for me is about revolution has to be practical.

It's always my nature.

You know, if something isn't practical, then it never really works.

It's never going to survive.

It's never going to be consistent.

It's never going to go all the way.

The 51st gate is the only chance that the heart center has to get beyond the material.

It's so deeply material.

You know, the ego center is the heart of the tribe.

You know, it is what the tribe needs.

The tribe must be able to look after its own, must be able to look after its children, must be able to provide the best that it possibly can.

And so three of the four gates of the ego center are deeply, deeply, deeply focused on the material requirements of the tribe.

The material requirements.

But in the end, in the end, money isn't everything.

You know, 14th gate, individual process.

In the end, money isn't everything.

You know, can't buy you love.

Bah bah bah bah.

You know, it isn't everything.

The 51 knows that deeply, deeply.

So when we come to the third line, we come again to this dynamic theme of adapting and obviously adapting through times of shock.

Now, one of the things to recognize about shock and disorder is that out of shock and disorder comes great potential for profit making, obviously.

You know, the guys that had shitty boats who made a fortune and still make a fortune, smuggling poor desperate dreaming people, trying to get them into places where they can have a living in this life, where so many of them drown and die or ripped off or, you know, turned into prostitutes and, you know, have their lives ripped away from them.

You know, the moment that you have times of disorder and shock, you know, is the moment that there are profiteers.

It's the moment that there are those that are going to take advantage of the disorder.

You know, the instant the government collapsed in Baghdad, there were people that were looting to take advantage of the shock and disorder.

You know, and I'm not a moralist.

I don't see that as bad.

I see that as a classic adaptation.

You know, the government has been abusing them for years.

Here's a little piece of revenge.

I'm going to steal this and sell it.

I'm going to take it.

It's mine.

You know.

So out of shock and disorder, you always are going to have opportunists that are going to arise.

You're always going to have those that are going to be able to make a profit from it.

The life-sustaining awareness that thinks on its feet and thus creates opportunities.

The power of spontaneity in times of challenge.

Now, of course, the ego can be destabilized in times of challenge, in times of threat, in times of shock.

It can.

But after all, the whole point, the whole point in all of that is that it's not in the end about money.

Life isn't about money.

Life is not about spending your time being concerned on the material plane.

It's not.

It's not.

It's part of the illusion.

It's part of the illusion.

And it's the densest illusion of the not-self.

Dense.

The not-self so incomplete, so poor in spirit and in hope, so poor that the only thing that it can dream is riches.

And in its deep, deep poverty, leave the pain of the have-nots grows so great that they dwarf anything that the haves have.

You know, this planet, man.

Wow.

You know, I grew up in a family where everybody was fucked up about money.

Money.

I watched so many people.

I grew up amongst the wealthy.

I watched all of them.

They were just fucked up.

It's not about money.

It's not.

You will never find your worth through money.

Never.

Never.

Your worth is about spirit.

See, what I know about the grace of life is that if everyone were correct, if everyone were correct, everyone would have what's correct.

Some would have just what they need.

Some would have just a little bit more than they need.

And some will have just a little bit more than that.

That's all.

It's never equal.

It's just the way that it is.

But everybody has a right to it.

The thing that comes with the actualization of individual human rights, the actualization of your own unique authority, is that truly you get what you deserve.

You get what is correct for you.

I laugh at my life, you know, because it just comes.

You know, and there are people in my life, they're very sweet, and I know that they say this with love.

They say, you're getting what you deserve.

You know?

My life, now.

And I look at it and I say, it just seems to work this way.

I mean, it's not like I want it or I don't want it or I need it or I don't need it or I don't care about all that.

It's not important.

See, I told you at the very beginning of the course to teach you any of this is really ugly in a way.

That's why I tried to make it as funny as I could.

You know, because the fact is that the way in which we make money, the way in which we profit, is that we profit at the expense of the not-self.

And we profit by reinforcing the not-self.

We do.

We do.

I'm a realist.

I accept that.

I accept that the world is not-self, will stay not-self for a very long time.

It is what it is, what to do.

Acceptance is part of the way.

But for you to understand that, you know, that the way in which you make your living, the way in which you bring material into your life, the only way that you cannot be stained by that is that you must be correct.

You must.

Because you can already see the truth.

I had to attract all of your not-selves with not-self gimmicks, not-self things that came out of my open center, and not contrived things because I'm not a contrived person.

Just what naturally came out of my design.

And it worked, you see.

I know that, just as I teach people who enter into design, that you can turn your mind into your own ally, I know that you can use the very techniques to attract the not-self to change the not-self, to wake it up, to transform it.

But you have to be correct in that.

Correct so that you get what is correct.

And in return, that you provide the most important thing of all, you know, that you provide a genuine service to the other.

In doing so, you know, whatever you bring into your life through this work, it's clean.

It's my greatest concern in the work in human design.

I love seeing you, any of you, do well, make a profit.

You know I have encouraged many of you, you know, that I celebrate with you in that process.

It's so important.

And when you're correct, this is the work, it's honorable work.

It's clean.

So despite the fact that all of this is done through the not-self, that's the world that we're in.

Don't be in a hurry to teach this to everybody else.

You know, it's something for you to keep within the nature of your wisdom, and to be able to understand very clearly that this is the way the world works.

And for every joke that you laughed at, recognize that for most of humanity, it only brings tears, eh?

Only tears.

That's all, folks.