All right, the G-Center.

We know that the strategy of the Undefined G-Center, and remember something.

Let's be very simple.

Products have an identity.

All inanimate things do.

And services are always represented by identities.

And that the G-Center is about bringing direction and love.

Now that's a lot of selling.

You know?

I mean there's many many things you can sell.

So what I would like to do is that I'd like to sell love first.

Let's sell the love of humanity.

Isn't that nice?

15th game.

And how do you sell the love of humanity?

Have you ever looked at the third line?

Ego inflation.

Oh come on, that's really funny.

How do you sell humanity?

You inflate their egos.

Oh, you look like a million dollars in this makeup, honey.

You know?

Oh, you smell like a queen, you know?

Ego inflation.

Oh, you've never looked so good.

Can I sell you some insurance?

The risks that monesty once recognized will self-destruct.

Oh, there's such a great joke in all that.

Anybody that knows anything about the stock market knows that stock markets are based on exploding bubbles.

I mean, boom and bust is one of the most natural things.

It's like being born and dying.

I mean, boom and bust is just natural.

The planet has always gone through boom and bust cycles.

Always.

Materialism operates in boom and bust cycles.

Remember, it is the fifth gate that establishes the pattern.

That is, it establishes an underlying structure.

But it's the fifteenth gate that gives it its diverse frequencies.

You know, the way that I've always described that is that, you know, if you're writing a piece of music, you know, you can write a progression of notes.

But if you change the frequency, if you change the rhythm, you can have many different songs from the same structure.

You know, the slow song can become a fast song and so forth and so on and it changes its nature, its spirit and everything, yet it's the same infrastructure.

So when you're dealing with the fifteenth gate, after all, it is the gate of extremes.

When you're dealing with the fifteenth gate, it's something to understand about the whole thing about the material way through logic.

Remember, logic is trying to establish a theoretical solidity.

But if you follow the logic to its end materially, you will get to bust.

Because eventually it explodes.

We saw that with empires.

You know, this is the nature.

I mean, after all, what we call the past in terms of empires, whatever, they were basically businesses.

I mean, they were basically what we would call global conglomerates.

You know, Rome was basically a global conglomerate, you know, and eventually it fell apart.

There is boom and there is bust.

And so it's one of the things to keep in mind.

It's so important to see that it's essential, this process.

In other words, you know, a product is only going to be attractive as long as you can keep on getting attention to that product.

You know, you keep on inflating it, inflating it, inflating it, inflating it.

But at some point it becomes old hat.

There are very, very few products that survive a century.

I mean, actual brands.

You know, there are very, very, very few that will survive.

There are companies that will survive that long who have gone through boom and bust with whatever pattern they were putting out.

And have reborn, bonds made and broken, bonds made and broken, have come back as another configuration.

But the reality is something to understand about brands.

You know, they will always have this boom and bust built into them.

It's there.

And of course, it's there as long as you are rigid in following the logic.

Remember, this is only an aspect and it's only an aspect.

And of course, here, the way in which you bring humanity together is that you homogenize them through getting them to be turned on by the same products that carry the same values.

You know, this is so important.

I mean, we would not be able to hold our modern societies together as unities without everyone having a television.

So we homogenize the product, we homogenize the surface, the service, we keep everybody informed.

I mean, America, continental nation, never could have developed without the Morris code, the telephone, the radio, the television.

Just couldn't of.

There's no way to homogenize that huge, vast continent without those kinds of tools.

And yet, at the same time, there's boom and bust, the rise and fall.

You know, and it's not thousand year Reichs anymore.

You know, rise and fall is different because all of us, all of us are operating under the cliche of, you know, every man woman is the king or queen in their castle.

We have so many businesses that are just, yeah, they are evolved microcosms of being in control of countries or societies or cultures or villages.

It's, you know, the world's a business.

So ego inflation.

The way in which we get all of humanity, all of humanity to share the same values is that we have to turn them on to the same product.

Think about that.

The selling of religion.

Think about the competition between, you know, Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, Judaism, you name it.

They've all got a pitch.

You know, they all have a pitch.

They're all trying to win the homogenization battle so that we can have one set of values throughout the world.

And that there is no business that wants to be lost naturally within the competition.

All businesses thrive to be at the top to have the largest market share and on and on and on and on and on.

Remember greed on the other side.

So it's something very important to see that the way in which humanity is brought together in love and in hate, in love and in hate is the way you sell them the products.

You sell them direction.

You know, the national socialists in Germany in the 30s, particularly under Goebbels, were able to use for the first time the incredible capacity of radio to be able to create a value And it was so easy to do it.

And it's so easy to do that to anyone, anywhere.

You know, if you control the media, you control the society.

And sooner or later, sooner or later, you homogenize that society into at least a superficial, remember it eventually busts, you know, a superficial acceptance of the values of that product service, which is direction, a direction of love.

How, you know, this is how we can all live together as brothers.

This is how we can all live together in peace and harmony.

There's your pitch.

And we can do that if we all share the same values.

We can do that if we all buy the same products.

You know, don't buy French wine, you know, Piss them off.

Good idea, actually.

Buy Spanish wine.

It's really good.

Fuck the French.

Cowards.

Useless.

Useless.

I could go on for days, eh?

Don't like them.

I mean, Jacques Chirac is a thief.

He's a thief.

He's a well-documented thief.

He's a kleptocrat.

You know, he's a very sophisticated, francophone kleptocrat.

You know?

I mean, he has put more dirty money in his pocket and in his family's pocket.

You know?

I mean, they should string him up from a fucking pole somewhere.

You can tell why I've retired.

I'm really ready to get into a lot of trouble and I'm trying to help my family out.

Quiet down.

Quiet down.

Relax now.

Okay.

Let's come to the beauty.

46th Gate is the gate of the love of the body.

The love of the body.

You know, there was always this saying, it's always the saying of usually our grandparents, you know?

The most important thing is health.

I always tell you the same thing.

You know, the most important thing is health.

Yeah.

Yeah.

Yeah.

However, however, the love of the body isn't just about health.

It isn't.

Oh, look at us as a creature.

I mean, look at all the mammals.

None of them wear clothes.

I mean, other than people who put costumes on dogs, which I think is insane.

You know?

They wouldn't choose that themselves.

You know, it's like, what am I going to wear today?

You know?

I can see my dog going to the cupboard.

You know?

Oh, what am I going to wear today?

Human beings.

Adornment.

Ah, tattoos and nose piercing and massages and oils and silk and fur.

Ah, the love of the body.

It's about good fortune.

It's all about good fortune.

It's about luck.

You know?

My adage is may you be healthy and right at the right time.

You know?

Correctness is a wonderful thing.

It's a wonderful thing.

But really understand something.

The 46th Gate is the vessel.

The body is the temple.

The temple is here to be adorned.

In truth, in truth, that's simply the not-self, venerating.

It's the not-self worshipping.

But for me, it's also the embrace of the Maya.

That we embrace the Maya through these forms.

And that we are not satisfied in that sense.

That we have to create an illusion on the form itself.

That we adorn the form.

The style and length of our hair, our clothes, whether we adorn our body with jewelry or not, with this or not, perfumes or not, all of this stuff.

Whether we care for our bodies, whether we like our bodies to be looked after.

You know, there are people that love to have their feet massaged or their temples massaged or this or that or the other thing.

You know, people who need to pull their sockets.

And all of this stuff that goes with the body, all of this is what's sold here.

Let me show you how to treat your body well.

Let me show you how to love your body.

You know, in that you can see some hidden tantra.

But the reality is that when you're looking at the 46 Gate, good fortune that may be perceived as the result of serendipity, but derives from effort and dedication.

And it's, you know, this is all part of the great channel of discovering.

And one discovers through the form.

You know, it is the heart of the form.

And it's the heart of the body.

And it's the heart of the body.

And it's the heart of the body.

And it's the heart of the body.

And that's the way I began to meet the dislike that people have for themselves.

It was like it was like walking into temples in which which had been used as open toilets.

I mean, and really, I'm not just saying it that way to try to be shocking or crude.

I really mean it.

You know, soiling these incredibly beautiful temples.

You know, just beautiful.

You know, and again, seeing that this is the vessel.

I mean, it's only through the vessel that the spirit emerges.

It's only through the vessel that life takes its form and so forth and so on.

So everything about the 46 Gate is selling a direction and it's selling a direction of loving the body.

And in loving the body, loving the experience of the body, the experience of the body in its process.

The third line is projection.

And it's about the practical, the practical approach to good fortune.

It's about maintaining the same patterns and attitudes that brought success and does not get sidetracked by indulging in further expectations.

Oh, it's so important to grasp that.

You see, everything about the experiential process is be in the experience.

Be in the experience.

Be in the experience.

Don't try to get out.

Be there.

Accept with grace the good fortune.

Be there.

You know, there you will find your reward.

It will be there.

There you will meet the true trial and error of any experiential way.

And as you conquer that by being there, so you enrich yourself.

See, for me, the 46, the third line is about luck.

You know, luck be your lady tonight.

It's about luck.

I consider myself to be a very lucky man.

But I know what luck is.

I know what it is.

Luck is everywhere the moment you stop looking for it.

It's everywhere the moment that you're simply within yourself.

It's everywhere the moment that you are just plain correct.

It's everywhere.

Everywhere, everywhere, everywhere.

And you will get it.

You will have your serendipity.

That was my Sunday sermon.

The 25th game, Innocence.

Now, I do love irony.

So much of understanding the potential of any human being is recognizing that human beings, particularly those that we know that go through this kind of process, they're not really of value until they're in their 50s.

They're not.

It's a learning process.

I mean, it's a learning process.

And it's something to really understand.

I look back on my own life.

I look back at so many things that I've done.

Jobs that I've had.

Work that I've done.

Much of which at the time was, yeah, it was just there and I did it.

And much of which when it was over, I never wanted to do it again or even think about it.

And I did so many things.

I looked particularly chaotic if you would look at my life movement in all those years.

And then I end up in this particular movie and I discovered something really incredible.

There really wasn't anything that I had ever done that wasn't of value to me now in this role.

It was amazing.

It was amazing.

It was like, wow.

All that stuff that I thought was so stupid or mindless or this or that or whatever.

You know, the jobs that were just, ah.

You know, the things you had to go through.

The embarrassment of all the stuff.

You know, the whole thing.

You know, the whole track.

And here I am in this role and every single one of those things, every single one of those things have been a bedrock for me.

A deep foundation.

And in the 25th gate, you really get to see that.

You know, the third line, sensibility.

Let's be sensible.

The recognition that innocent action does not in itself guarantee success.

It doesn't.

You know, third line theme.

You correctly enter into something that goes wrong.

It's not bad.

Let's be sensible now.

You gained experience.

That experience at some point will be of deep value to you in your life.

When it becomes synthesized with your whole life's direction, it will be there.

And it's one of the things about initiation.

It's one of the things that I know as an initiator.

Is that you can take them.

Is that you can take them to sweet water.

But you can't make them drink.

You know?

You can't make them drink.

It's not possible.

I understand this about the nature of, the nature of initiation.

You know, the nature of initiation is, alright, here's your chance.

Me to you.

Here's your chance.

Pfff.

Whether it is or it isn't, let's be sensible about this.

It isn't going to be for everyone.

You know, it isn't.

You see, this is where mutation, where mutation is nothing more than a shockwave that may or may not take hold.

It's not like the 360 in the 14.

2.

It's very different.

It's just a shockwave.

You know, it's the chance for the satori moment.

It's the chance for the transcendent perspective.

Doesn't mean it's going to last.

I mean, there isn't anyone who ever sat in a reading with me that wasn't initiated, yet going out the door doesn't mean that the shockwave held.

It doesn't.

It doesn't.

You know, it's not really mutative.

It's not.

It's very innocent.

The perfection of action through uncontrived and spontaneous nature.

This line holds a great mystery for our time.

Look at the line.

If you look at the line, you'll see that Mars is exalted.

The aspect I read to you, the power of the ego to withstand failure and still maintain its nature.

The power of the spirit to withstand failure and shock.

In other words, it's built in.

To deal with failure.

Yet to see something.

Here is where you're changed by the failure.

You know, you're changed by the experience.

But look at the detriment.

It's a Pluto detriment.

I want you to think about something.

If you look at the wheel, you will see that the 2551, that channel, is in Aries.

25 is a little bit at the end of Pisces.

It's the Cuspax gram.

Pluto hasn't been there for over 180 years.

There is nobody alive on this planet that carries Pluto in this line.

So it's not there in the neutrino ocean of programming.

It's not available.

It's not there.

There is no detriment to this line.

This is my Mercury.

You know?

It was one of the great jokes for me.

You know, because when I looked at that, I recognized I can't fail.

Look at the negative.

Look at the negative.

The potential loss of innocence through misfortune that in the extreme can manifest from crime to suicide.

The potential loss of spirit through failure or shock.

None of us have to live through that.

None of us.

Our grandchildren or great-grandchildren, when Pluto gets around to Aries, it'll come back.

It'll come back.

It'll come back.

So it's a very special time.

Now why and how?

Think about the last hundred years.

There has been more inventions in the last hundred years.

There has been more initiation of the new in the last hundred years than in all of the history of humanity brought together and much more.

And of all those new initiations, all of them, they all had their moment in the sun.

Most of them disappeared very quickly.

Where are hula hoops today?

You know?

Where did they go?

They disappeared.

And rocket radios and God knows what else.

Bless you.

Where did they all go?

You know, they had their moment in the sun.

They had their moment of shocking their way and opening up and saying, I'm here, but they didn't necessarily last.

The 10th Gate.

The 10th Gate is very important.

And it's very important in the sense that everything having to do with the 10th Gate has to do with the behavioral psychology of the material way.

Everything about the 10th Gate is that it's the only gate that truly expresses the archetype of behavior.

You know, the 10th Gate.

You know, literally, how to act in the world.

How to survive in the world.

How to follow your convictions in the world.

How to awaken to principles in the world.

All of this is through the 10th Gate.

The underlying code of behavior which ensures successful interaction despite circumstances.

Nothing is more important to success materially than the right behavior that ensures successful interaction Nothing more important.

If you don't have the 10th Gate you know, ultimately you're here to recognize what behavior works under what circumstances.

Nothing more important than guiding guiding the behavior of those on the material plane.

You know, if you're a salesperson there's a certain way to behave and it needs to be trained.

You know, if you're a manager there's a certain way to behave it has to be trained.

You know, all of those things are behavioral and if you operate with the correct behavior you know, if your job is to be you know, somebody who is going to be in the middle of a dispute you know, you're going to try to bring conciliation if you don't know how to behave you're really in trouble.

You know, if you sit down there and say alright, you jerk's over there I don't like your...

Anyway, you know what I mean.

In other words, it's very important and behavior is something that we sell.

We sell.

You know, it's like going to finishing school.

You know, in the old days for girls you would be finished, you know perfected, you know how to have exactly the right wiggle you know, how to move across a room how to curtsy without farting you know, all of that stuff I had to inject a little levity there, you know the martyr, the martyr so what is the behavior?

The behavior is a futile rejection of standards based on a just awareness the martyr, enduring example you know, you have to set the example and you have to stand up for that example no, we're supposed to behave like this somebody's always got to have that job you know, and of course you get to see this in large organizations where you know, the implementation of chain of command behavior you know, how do you deal with those that are superior to you how do you deal with those that are inferior to you and on and on and on and on all of that behavioral stuff all of it, all of it, all of it it's big business the other thing is the other side and the other side is being able to help people enjoy their work you know, the moment that you can help somebody through guiding them in terms of their behavior you can help them to fit in better you can help them to be more comfortable in the environment they're in that their behavior fits into the environment that they're in that they're going to enjoy themselves more they're going to love themselves more in their work and of course this is all the question of individual dignity you know, individual dignity is something that always has to be sold so the manager has to be sold on you know, treating treating its team with respect with dignity and yet at the same time knowing how to get out of them what is required by the responsibilities of that job and almost all of it is behavioral I mean, almost all of it is behavioral okay, that brings us to the Sphinx Gates in the G and we come to the Prime Sphinx Gate we come to the second gate it's the gate where the magnetic monopole sits so it's dealing with the heart of our direction in life we already saw that the main impetus of of wealth through the 14th Gate the introduction of the new but where to take the new how to introduce the new how to bring the new out it's one thing to be the mad scientist who says, you know, eureka it's another thing to turn eureka into a household word and the ability to do so is about the direction that mutation takes if mutation is properly nourished if it is properly directed then it's going to be able to have its impact and when you're looking at the second gate and you're looking at the third line you're really looking at one of the great truths of development anyway which is patience the teacher that never stops being a student you know, the line speaks for itself it says dedication to a lifetime of receptivity with the maturity to accept that the process never ends when connected permanently to the 14th Gate through the beat channel rewards for services rendered and so the real rewards are not inherent in the energy of the 14th Gate but the real rewards are only possible through the right direction and again this goes back to one of the many things that we see about the relationship between material success and basic survival mechanisms that success is based on strategies and when you're looking at the second gate what you're looking at is you know, the strategy of how you bring something out how you move it what direction you give it and how you pull people to it as a direction because again, remember that's so important it's so important in understanding that through the Open G Center what you're selling what you're selling is security in direction this is the way you know, if you take this new strategy if you take this new system into your life you are going to be different and so forth and so on and how to do it you know, the my process as a teacher my process as a mechanic has improved over the years because of the strength of my second gate you know, I keep on trying to refine how you bring this knowledge out I went from intensely recruiting not selves who would be interested you know, in education to extensively recruiting not selves who aren't interested in education but are always interested in something new you know, here's a new thing you know, try this, you'll like it here's an easy step, do this, you'll like it looking for the right direction and it's all about patience remember, it's all 7 year cycles always, everything, 7 year cycle doesn't matter whether you think you're getting a temporary job you're carrying it as a 7 year cycle and in recognizing that fulfillment is going through that cycle and that you require patience but more than that I'm an archetype of this you know, I have a I have an unconscious mind so I don't really know what I'm going to say you all know that and the fact is that the elaboration on the formula that I was given in my mystical experience has only been possible because I had students and the moment that there were students in front of me came all this elaboration you know, and there never would have been any elaboration if there wasn't anybody and of course out of that elaboration came new understanding I mean, as a teacher, I've grown because of you you know, every time I give a course particularly those courses that I've never given before you know, every time I give that course there's always something new that emerges out of my unconscious you know, that emerges out of this mental process of mine and so without that there would have been no growth and this is again one of the things to recognize is that the greatest learning comes when you're a teacher you know, the greatest learning comes when you are running your material life as a teacher you know, because then you're always the student you know, you're always learning you know, you're always trying to stay ahead of the curve you know, it's one of those great things so, you know, the direction is not given the direction is a learning process it's a learning process and it's a refinery, remember we always see that in direction because direction expresses itself through the three sphinx gates that point to the throat that is what we call roll gates and in each of these roll gates we become very specific in the way in which we sell direction you know, when we go to the seventh gate we're selling logical direction through logical leadership we're selling logical direction here's the theory we're selling logical direction we're selling logical direction here's the theory we're selling you a theory here's the theory and of course, I love this about the seventh gate and the thematic of what it is to be a leader it's to be an anarchist it's to be an anarchist the rejection of any institutionalized order the constant need for change no matter what the prevailing conditions tinkering you know I mean the fact is that a logical pattern is never guaranteed to operate perfectly never never never you know, it will only operate for a certain amount of time for example, scientific laws any scientific law can be altered through mutation any scientific law you get close enough to a black hole and you'll see scientific laws fall apart you know any scientific law again, it's something to understand about the nature of materialism the nature of materialism is Las Vegas have you ever been to Las Vegas?

have you ever been to Las Vegas?

oh they will put up a one billion dollar building they will put up a one billion dollar building they will keep it in operation five years and they'll tear the sucker down and build another one have you ever noticed the churches are built on old spiritual sites?

you know how many mosques are built on old Hindu temples you know, and so forth and so on we have this thing about tearing down and building up new new I remember going through the whole period in the 70's in North America with urban renewal this was the big catch phrase urban renewal make the cities human again and they did I mean, many of them they did, you know, they took all these decrepit things that had fallen apart because of suburbia and malls and all of this shit, and they started working on renewing renewing, renewing and this is the whole thing about anarchy it's ugly, it doesn't work anymore, tear it down, we'll build a new one tear it down, we'll build a new one tear it down, we'll build a new one this is business you know how much work is done in consultancy by tearing down old models in order to build a new one?

tear it down to build a new one tear it down to build a new one tear it down to build a new one you know, and this is one of the things about understanding the way in which we develop materially is that we develop materially making money on a foundation that's been established long before it's like calling prostitution the oldest business you know, you keep on building better bordellos you know?

now we have internet bordellos it's hilarious you know, you keep on building on the foundations of it you keep on improving, new and improved, but it's more than new and improved it's got a whole new look got a whole new look and then you tear it down, you build another one you tear it down, you build another one you tear it down, you build another one it's been going on forever, forever, forever, forever you know, I mean the many, many, many years that I had a close relationship with Germany you know, to see a place that was was torn down literally torn down, rebuilt yet it was built on the same foundations just new and improved you know, Frankfurt's a new and improved look it's amazing, this is what we are and it's the whole thing to understand about making money every seven years you kill the golden calf and you make a new one I mean, so important you know, and it doesn't mean it disappears, it just, you know, you just you improve it you improve it because you've been through the trial and error process you've been through the discovery process you've seen the weaknesses and you know something else at the end of that seven year cycle that your basic market has had enough of you even though you've got a good product even though you have a good service so if you want to hold on to them you have to renew the bond and the only way you're going to renew the bond is, hey have we got something new for you you know how much is spent on the R in R&D research and development there's a fortune a fortune spent on research you've got drug companies you know that spend what most of Africa tries to earn in a year you know, you will have a single drug company like Pfizer that will spend 12 billion dollars a year on research on research for what for something new this is a better anti-cancer drug this is a better anti-this drug this is a better da-ba-ba and every once in a while they're really lucky with something really new I mean really new you can have an erection for 12 days half the world bought it the value of research and you have to see that this is the mechanism tear it down, build it up many countries in the world have presidents they elect for 7 years like France, but they should kill the bastard anyway am I on that again?

sorry Mexico you have countries that elect their presidents for 7 years it's actually very intelligent unless you get a guy like Bush I'm retired, I don't think they'll hurt me anymore okay, let's go over let's get away from that it's all trouble let's go to the 33rd gate and talk about the abstract direction remember that the abstract direction is all rooted in the great gift of memory those of us that were looking at bases a while back saw that without memory there is no self-reflective consciousness and there is no development of consciousness and the intellectual mind and consciousness the intellectual mind is dependent on reflection as part of its prana in order to be able to attain levels of insight that are valuable the 33rd gate is the act of withdrawal and the transformation of a weak position into a strength it is time the next time erase that that was on the other side again keep trying to get to the other side no, I'm going to the throat I'm trying to get there I want to go play the piano I'm going to the other side I'm going to the other side alright the fellowship of man I was avoiding that at all costs good, as long as I'm offending people you can't run a business without secrets I wanted to get to the nice side of all this you can't run a business without secrets you can't not only that there is nothing that sells better than secrets I'm a 33, I don't have the 13 I sell secrets I sell them I mean I do, I have a secret for you you want to know your incarnative sequencing?

you want to know what nobody else has ever known?

do you have a credit card?

we take cash I'll sell you a secret oh yeah oh, human beings love secrets they have secrets and the secrets are worth so much more than the truth I mean as long as it is a secret you can inflate its value endlessly I know the secret of the past I was once a Lemurian I lived on Atlantis as a matter of fact I ruled yes yes yes yes yes secrets I belong to a secret society here we are in the world of conspiracy in the world of the cabal hey look we're the five biggest wheat producing companies in the world let's fix the fucking price you know the hell with competition and shhh you charge a half cent more I'll charge a half cent less you know we'll make it look pretty much the same and we can keep our inflated level all of you buy shredders so that the documents can be destroyed when the investigators come oh and shhh shhh and then the government the government offers a reward if you can find out the cheaters have you ever noticed how nice that is I'll pay you to get to the secret so secrets are valuable and they're more valuable when they're not revealed you know because not all secrets turn out to be the truth as a matter of fact most secrets turn out to be bullshit not the truth at all you know let me tell you what I know about Jane pessimism the belief that the best can never be achieved a lack of trust that can only be transformed through concrete evidence openness that is conditioned by suspicion and seeks evidence right if you don't think you can ever get the best if you don't think that it's possible for you to trust the direction to bring you what you want in return for your investment then fix it you know cheat I appreciate these things you see not being a moralist I really don't mind you know it's one of the things I really understand see look at a new age magazine I mean look at a new age magazine what do you think they're selling they're selling secrets it's all selling secrets you know I'll sell you the secret of tantra I'll sell you the secret of being you know at peace I'll sell you the secret of standing on one leg for the rest of your life I'll sell you all the secrets I'll sell you the secrets I'll sell you the secrets I will I mean Scientology for years offered a course that you know for $20,000 you could buy enlightenment I mean people will people will spend money on secrets they will have you ever noticed how many books have the word secret in it I mean go into any self help section of a book store it's all secrets on sale Dr.

Jane's secret you know G-spot book I don't know there's all these secrets underneath that is satire you know this is one of the great lines of satire you know something very special to understand that when it comes to the material when it comes to the not self you have to have carrots if you don't have carrots nothing works secrets are one of the greatest carrots I will show you the way I know the secret you follow me and pay me well no obviously that can be done in truth I mean I didn't sell an empty bag for the secrets but you know in the practicality of looking at life we can see what all of that's about the first hexagram the creative creation is a primal force the energy potential to manifest inspiration without without limitation and the third line is the energy to sustain creative work and the creative work is the work of demonstration it's the work of demonstration you know that is the creative direction the profound need for self expression and in the end this is the primary direction is that through our success on the material plane we express we get to express ourselves more fully in other words we gain advantage you know everybody has a right every unique human being has a right to their advantage because they are unique you only gain that advantage through self expression and something else to understand that so much of the material is creative to succeed on the material plane is to be a creative being I can remember that when I was in university that the creative types were always scowling at the scientific types or at the business types and you know my thing is that I love all of that I love all of it you know I like being a creative business scientist I mean there's something very exciting about taking all of those things and synthesizing them into something else and yet in the end what it is about is that we are unique creative forces in the sense that we are unique reactive forces and that the way in which the material plane can offer us is that and that the way in which the material plane can operate is a reflection of who we are of who we are you know and who we are as the true self and its shadow embraced as one and so you know as we sell the story of becoming yourself as we sell the story of living out your nature living out your design what we're also seeing is that in the perfection of that you know this is the creative experience and this is the creative material experience see for me awakeness transforms taking out the garbage into nothing more than what's happening nothing more nothing less it's just this is what's happening you know it's all that's happening and of course the greatest happening for us is when we see that in being ourselves we are not simply honoring ourselves for the first time you know but the material domain honors us in return let's move now to the throat shh do all the shit mmmm the eighth gate the eighth gate the eighth gate let's complete the other side of this track I love this it's so nice it's so nice by the way the basic worth basic worth you know you can even smell money here the basic worth realized in contributing individual efforts to group goals holding together and the third line the phony Pope John Paul yeah he's an 8'3 what a great phony but after all if you're gonna sell you know this is the selling of self expression the acceptance of style and not substance ah baby have I got something to teach you you know that that that new and improved it's not about substance it's about style we don't mind if you change the bottle that the coke comes in but don't fuck with the recipe long as the substance is there that's okay and you can attract us or not with a new style but style is what improved is all about it's all about style and oh you can see how that infects us all all of us we are all style conscious in one way or another because this is how the new sells us and because it's how the new sells us it's what's out there and there's all kinds of styles and styling you know it's the old joke about you can dress her up but you can't take her out you better have consistent substance you know if you don't have consistent substance you're really in trouble you know and it's one of the things to understand about style is that style will work for you as long as there is an underlying substance so for example the leadership in design has been led by a freak me my style my way of doing whatever I do and the style is changing substance remains the same substance remains the same you know the style and this is a natural this is a natural progression the only way that you can maintain a mutation is that you cyclically improve its style and it's all surface it's all surface but otherwise you don't get the not self you know so the moment that you diversify the human design palette into areas of specialization you know you've got the health style you've got the consulting style you know you've got the analytical style you know you've got all these different kinds of things that can be improved you know we're a new and improved area of your substance the substance you trust I mean haven't you seen that in ads you know when they're introducing some dilapidated product and never sold you know and the pitches were the company that brought you this and this and this and here is our new and improved and wonderful boop by this boop phonies ah but where would we be without them I mean where would they be have you ever seen you know have you ever read style columns you know and it's about what you drink and what you eat and what you wear and where you go it's all about the material class system it's the reinforcement if you have money honey you better know how to dress otherwise nobody's going to know that you have money honey you know it's style you know and if you've got the money honey and you've got the dress and you don't know what the third fork is for you're fucked you better learn some styling let us work on you and bring you to the style that your money deserves and it's what we do and boy does it sell it's incredible I mean we're gloss creatures look at us we're Maya creatures I mean we don't wear clothes to keep us warm we're Maya creatures we're illusion machines you know we don't even think about how much we are illusion machines and the illusions we put out what am I going to wear today have you ever thought about what that means you know you know it's not like here I am you know it's what am I going to wear today what style am I going to put across today we're not going to talk about Randy you know overalls and gucci's have their own sort of you know