Yin

The Yin provides an in depth resource of all the fundamentals:

- Glossary of Terms: Human Design has a specific vocabulary. It is important for students to familiarize themselves with these terms and the images they are associated with. Human Design is a visual science. The Glossary like the rest of the text is fully illustrated.

- Part One: The Nine Centers: The centers are the foundation of Rave circuitry. This is essential reading before beginning the Yang section. An understanding of the centers, is the essential first step.

- Part Two: Rave Body Graph circuitry: The channels which link the centers are grouped in circuits. Circuitry is what Design is all about. The circuits form the framework for the rest of this section.

- Part Three: The 64 hexagram gates and line keynotes: This is a reference section. Each hexagram gate is explained in detail and keynotes are given to assist in line analysis. It is well worth reading through before you plunge into the Yang section, for it will give the student a deeper understanding of the circuits and the individual gates. The relationship between gates in a circuit comes alive when you read each circuit through. As a reference you will often return to these pages for their gUide to each hexagram.

Awareness - All human beings are endowed withtlu:ee potential fields of awareness. Each awareness hasthe ..same capacity to gUide the life.

Mind Consciousness: The Mental Field of awareness. The Ajna.
The Streams: Sensing. Knowing. Understanding.

Body Consciousness: The Splenic Field of awareness. The Spleen.
The Streams: Taste. Intuition. Instinct.

Spirit Consciousness: The Emotional awareness. Solar Plexus.
The Streams: Feeling. Emoting. Sensitivity.

Awareness Frequency-Each area of awareness operates at a different frequency.
The Mental Field of awareness- Over all time
The Splenic Field of awareness- In the Now
The Emotional Field of awareness- In a Wave

Big Bang-In terms of the Human Design System, Conception. The coming together of the original Yin(the Egg) and the great Yang(the Seed) initiating the expanding (Growing) Universe. In the language of the "Voice" the conception of the "child."

Bridge- Any gate or combination of gates that will connect two separate areas of Definition.

Cell- All single cells have, like other life forms, a design. The cell has two centers: The G:The 15th gate to the Sacral: The 5th gate. Its integrative potential is the 3rd gate through potential Mutation.

Center-The centers are information hubs. This knowledge is rooted in the Hindu-Brahmin Chakra System. In Design there are nine centers and they are the foundation upon which the entire Rave Body Graph circuitry is based.

The Head-lnspiration-The Pressure center from Above
The Ajna-Conceptuallzation-The center of Mental Awareness
The Throat-Expresslon-The Center of Manifestation
The Heart-Ego-The Will Power Motor
The G-The self
The sacral-5exuality-The Fertility Motor
The Solar Plexus-Emotions-The Center of Emotional Awareness
The Spleen-Cleansing-The Center of Splenic Awareness
The Root-Kundalini-The Pressure center from Below

Channels- The connective mechanism that brings the Centers into contact with each other is the Channels. These Channels are rooted in The Tree of Life in the ZOharIKabbalist tradition. They act as transforming agents for the potentials oUhe gates. It is through the Channels that the circuitry ofan Indiv;bual is revealed. Each ofthe Channels carries a specific value and forms the key to Rave analysis

Abstraction 64/47- A design of mental actiVity and clarity
Awareness 61/24- A design of a thinker
Logic 6314- A design of mental ease mixed with dOUbt

Acceptance 17/62- A design of an organizational being
Structuring 43/23- A design of Individuality(from genius to freak)
Curiosity 11/56- A design of a seeker

Awakening 20/10- A design of commitment to higher principles
The Alpha 3111- For good or bad, a design of leadership
Inspiration 8/1 - A design ofa creative role model
The Prodigal 33/13 - A design of a witness

The Wavelength 16/48 - A design of Talent
The Brain Wave 20/57 - A design of penetrating awareness
Charisma 20/34 - A design where thoughts must become deeds
Exploration 10/34 - A design of following one's convictions
Perfected Form 10/57 - A design for survival
Power 34/57 • A design of an archetype

Rhythm 15/5 - A design of being in the flow
Beat 2/14 - A design of a keeper of keys
Discovery 46/29 - A design of succeeding where others fail

Initiation 25/51 - A design of needing to be first
Community 40/37 - A design of a part seeking a whole
Surrender 26/44 - A design of a transmitter
Money 21/45 - A design of a materialist

Mating 59/6 - A design focused on reproduction
Preservation 27/50 - A design of custodianship

Transformation 32/54 - A design of being driven
Struggle 28138 - A design of stubbornness
Judgment 18/58 • A design of insatiability

Synthesis 49/19 • A design of being sensitive
Emoting 55139 - A design of moodiness
Recognition 30/41 • A design of focused energy

Maturation 42/53 - A design of balanced development, cyclical
Mutation 3/60 - A design of energy which fluctuates and initiates,pulse
Concentration 9/52 - A design of determination, focused

Circuits-The channels operate through six circuits. The circuits are a key to what the dominanttheme is in a design. They are also essential for understanding composite charts whether of partners or groups.

Sensing-The abstract circuit: 7 channels:
64/4711/5633/1346/2942/5341/3035/36

Knowing- The Individuality circuit: 9 channels
61/2443/238/12/143/6039/5512/2238/2857/20

Understanding- The logic circuit: 7 channels
63/417/62 31n 15/5 9/5218/58 48/16

Ego- The material circuit: 5 channels
45/2140/3749/1954/3244/26

Centering-The anchoring circuit: 2 channels
51/2510/34

Defense- The protection circuit: 2 channels
50/2759/6

Conception-The vast majority of the Crystals of Consciousness are not manifested in living forms and never wiII.incarnate. Grouped in "Bundles," they maintain a continuous planetary consciousness field. In each of these "bundles" there are specific Crystals, countless in number, designed and waiting to incarnate. When out of manifestation Design crystals with their magnetic monopoles embedded within them cluster within the mantle of the Earth. Personality crystals orbit within the Atmosphere.

The initiation of the conception sequence is when the Magnetic Monopole and its Design Crystal is attracted from its "bundle" within (beneath) the mantle by the magnetic monopole of the male. The attracted Design crystal enters the male's Solar Plexus center and lodges in t.he 6th gate.

lIE
Prime ~etie Uonopole
Frequency Wave
~ Solar Plexus
Mantle
>
Design Crystal
A
Magnetic Monopole
from The Book of Letters
17

===== PAGE 21 =====

At the moment of orgasm the Design crystal, now within the single sperm and directed by the crystal's Magnetic Monopole, will move in the lover's aura composite through the Channel of Mating and Reproduction, 6/59; from the Male Solar Plexus into the Female Sacral center and enter into the Egg. This is the moment of Conception and the initiation of an incarnation cycle. As the Neutrino stream·penetrates the mother it also penetrates the cell and passes through the cells Design crystal that then begins the work of manifesting the building of the body of the child.

88°of the Sun The Personality Crystal or what in western religious traditions is referred to as the Soul, requires an exact amount of time within the fetus before birth. It is called into the fetus at the moment that the basic structure of the brain's Neo-Cortex is complete. This is when the vehicle is ready to begin its process of self-consciousness in form.

The time of entry is exactly 88° of the Sun's movement before birth. Note that pre-mature births do not alter this formula, but are an indication that the fetus' Neo-Cortex has developed more rapidly than usual. However, for the majority, in normal pregnancies, this event takes place at the end of the second trimester. During this 88 or 89 days, the Personality is able to adapt to its new. vehicle. In Human Design, the birth data shows us the potential of the Personality after its period of adaptation. And the calculation 88° of the Sun before birth gives us the exact time the Soul entered the fetus and marks the readiness of the vehicle for Self-Consciousness.

Conscious- What the Personality has access to, in Design all of the birth data has the potential to be experienced consciously.

Composite- The integration of one or more designs with each other. Through this integration the basic relationship is revealed. Where definition exists in the composite a foundation for the relationship is established. In composites there are four kinds of Defining connections.

1. Electro-Magnetic: Within the same channel, the partners open the opposite gates, defining the channel. This definition represents the basic dynamic of a relationship, attraction and repulsion

2. Compromise: One partner defines the whole channel and the other opens only a single gate. The partner that only activates one gate of the channel always compromises to the complete channel.

3. Dominance: One partner defines the channel while the other does not activate any of the channel's gates. The defined channel can only be accepted and surrendered to.

4. Companionship: When both partners open the same channel or gate. This is the potential for friendship, the shared experience.

Design Crystal- An aspect of the original Yin crystal shattered atthe Big Bang. situated in the Ajna Center, it manifests the life, the body and Its bio-genetic functions.

Design Sun and Earth- The Sun and Earth ofthe Design Calculation. They represent the direct inheritance from the Father (Sun) and the Mother (Earth).

Definition- In preparing a Rave Chart, when a planet is in a position which activates one gate of a channel and another planet is in a position activating the other gate of the same channel, this is definition. Graphically it is illustrated by coloring in the entire channel and the connected centers. Definition creates a fixed and permanent connection. It cannot be changed. It is what is reliable in a design because it is consistently present. It is always active. Most human beings rather than living out their definition which always will bring about correct action, spend their lives living out what is not defined in them.

Doing and Waiting- The Throat center is the most mechanically complex of all the centers. It is the center for expression. It is our voice but is also our potential to do, to act. When the Throat is connected directly or through a single continuous definition to one of the bodies' four motors (Heart, Sacral, Solar Plexus, or Root) then action can take place and the person can be described as a "Doer." When the Throat is not connected to a motor (the exception is our sex drive) action cannot take place. Those who are not Doers, have to wait and to learn to recognize who are their best allies. Doers need to learn to refine their doing with correct activity.

Duality- The whole universe and everything it contains is dualistic in nature. A human being through their DNA/RNA genetic structure are by design a dualistic bio-system. The Universe in Physics began as a duality in its expansion through the Quarks and Leptons. This is our up, down, in out, right and wrong reality. In Design the duality is reflected through the two sets of data which determine the make up of an individual in a Rave Chart.

Earth - The Earth is one of the many planets that can affect our design. In Human Design Rave calculation, the Earth is always opposite the Sun in the zodiac. There are two great polarities in design (Oppositions in astrological terms) the SunlEarth axis, and the North Node/South Node axis. The Earth represents where we get our grounding. Where we are rooted and where we need to find our stability.

Energy Formats- Connecting the Root center to the Sacral are three channels. Through these channels the foundation energy of the three main circuits, Sensing, Knowing and Understanding is determined. The energy formats are correspondingly, Cyclical (Sensing), Pulse (Knowing) and Focused (Understanding) energies. These formats condition the circuits they ground.

53 / 42 The Channel of Maturation (Cyclic)
60 /3 The Channel of Mutation (Pulse)
52 /9 The Channel of Concentration [Focused)

Ephemeris - The Rave World Ephemeris is based on astronomical calculations of the positions of the planets, the Sun and the Nodes of the Moon for twice a day, at mid-night and Noon for both Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) and the International Date Line (IDL). The Rave Ephemeris provides a listing for each year of these positions translated into the hexagrams and lines of the Rave I'Ching. These positions are then transposed into individual body graphs. In this way the programming of the planets is graphically clear and anyone can compare their own design to the design of the day and easily see where they are affected. In the Rave Ephemeris, the time the Moon enters each gate is given exactly.

Health Centers- There are two centers specifically related to our health. The Splenic center, the "Washing Machine." The Spleen is the center of our Immune System. At a biological level, it operates through the spleen and the Lymph system, cleansing us. The other health center is the Throat center. At the biological level, it is our Thyroid glands and in charge of metamorphosis and our metabolism.

Hexagram- One of sixty-four (64) archetypes described in the Chinese Book of Changes. Each hexagram has six (6) sub-themes, or lines.

Hexagram Constellation- In the Human Design System, one of sixty-four (64) divisions of the zodiacal wheel. Each constellation has an arc of 5° 37" 30".

Hexagram Gates- In design, the sixty-four constellations of the zodiac can each activate a corresponding hexagram gate in the Rave Body Graph. It has been known since 1953 with the discovery of the human genetic code, that life is determined by the same mathematics. There are sixty-four codons made up that make up our genetic structure. Each gate in design is an agent of genetic information.

Below. the 64 Gates and their Keynotes

64 Before Completion-Confusion
47 Oppression-Realizing
61 Inner Truth-Mystery
24 The Return-Rationalizing
63 After Completion-Doubt
4 Youthful Folly-Formulizing
17 Following-Opinions
62 Preponderance of the Small-Detail
43 Breakthrough-Insight
23 Biting Through-Assimilation
11 Peace-Ideas
56 The Wanderer-8timulation
20 Contemplation-the Now
10 Treading-Behavior
31 Influence-Leading
7 The Army-the Role
8 Holding Together-Contribution
1 The Creative-8elf-Expression
33 Retreat- Privacy
13 Fellowship of Man-Listening
16 Enthusiasm-8kill
48 The Well-Depth
12 Standstill-Caution
22 Grace-Qpenness
35 Progress-Change
36 Darkening of the Light-Crisis
20 Contemplation-the Now
57 The Gentle-lntuition
34 Power of the Great-Power
15 Rhythm-Extremism
5 Waiting-8et patterns
2 The Beat-Higher Learning
14 Possession in Great Measure-Key
46 Pushing Upward-Determination
29 The Abysmal- Persistence
25 Innocence-8pirit of the Self
51 The Arousing-8hock
40 Deliverance-Aloneness
37 The Family-Communal
26 T.Power·of the Great-Egoist
44 Coming to Meet-Alertness
21 Biting Through-The Hunter
45 Gathering Together-Gatherer
59 Dispersion-8exuality
6 Conflict-Friction
27 Nourishment-Caring
50 The Cauldron-Values
32 Duration-Continuity
54 The Marrying Maiden-Ambition
28 Preponderance of the Great-The Game Player
38 Opposition-The Fighter
18 Work On What has been Spoilt-Correction
58 The Joyous-Aliveness
49 Synthesis-8ensitivity
55 Abundance-8pirit
30 The Clinging Fire-Feelings
42 Increase-Growth
3 Difficulty at the Beginning-Mutation
9 The Taming Power of the Small-Focus

Life cycle - In Human Design, the human Life cycle is based on the orbit ·of the planet Uranus, which takes eighty-four (84) years to go around the Sun. When Uranus has moved to a position exactly opposite its original birth position, this is the mid-life point.

Since the orbit of Uranus around the Sun is elliptic and varies, the opposition will occur between the ages of 38 and 43. The Neutrinos through Windows computer program calculates the exact time for this event.

Lines - Each hexagram has six lines. There are 64 hexagrams. There are 384 lines in the Ravel'Ching. 375 of these lines are dualities, whose polarity is expressed through the terms, exalted and Detriment. These terms come from Astrology and in Astrology these terms are synonymous with good and bad. Design has no such morality conditioning these terms. They simply denote the polarity in the line. In subsequent editions of the Rave I'Ching, they will be removed.

In each line, the polarity is associated with a specific planet.

from The Rave I'Ching
61 Inner Truth
4 - Research. Saturn exalted. The capacity of concentration to explore the depths of inner truth and maximize its application to fundamental principles. Jupiter in detriment. Where the tendency to expansion and integration leads to involving others in the research and may end in a diversity of confusing applications.

In the example above, Saturn is Exalted and Jupiter is in Detriment. In the example the Planet Saturn is positioned in this line of the 61st gate, it automatically activates the Saturn Exalted. In this case only the Saturn information applies and the Jupiter in detriment, does not. If you do not have either of the planets mentioned in a line, then both sets of information apply.

When either the planet Jupiter or Saturn while in transit enters into the 61 hexagram even if it is not in the same line, it will still fix the nature of the line. Not only can a planet influence each gate directly but it can also influence the gate from the other side of the channel through definition. In this example, Jupiter transiting the 24th gate will bring out the Detriment of the 61, 4th line.

Magnetic Monopole- The center of our being, our Self, holding the illusion of our separateness.together, guiding the vehicle along its trajectory.

Motors- In Human Design, the body has four motors. These energy centers when connected directly or through continuous definition to the Throat center, manifest as action.
1. Heart: Will Power
2.Solar Plexus: Emotional
3. Root: Kundalini
4. Sacral: Fertile Power

Natural World, the Design of- The Human Design System is an aspect of the knowledge from the "Voice." Every animate form has its own design and is endowed with Crystals of Consciousness and a Magnetic Monopole. Even inanimate objects have a design, endowed with a Design Crystal and Magnetic Monopole, but lacking a Personality Crystal. (See end of book.) Note: for the design of the single cell, see cell.

Neutrino- The most abundant of all elementary particles. Bearing an infinitesimal mass, they are penetrating everything, everywhere, all the time at near the speed of light. Neutrinos are made in Stars. We receive 70% of our Neutrinos from the Sun. They carry the information of the stars to Earth, to the Crystals of Consciousness manifesting life in Form.

No Choice-The Empirical evidence of the Human Design System. See for yourself.

Nodes of the Moon- The Lunar Nodes determine the geometry of our movement through space, in mystical language, our "destiny." As with the Sun/Earth, they are in exact opposition to each other in the zodiac. These two oppositions form the "Cross" upon which the life is built.

The Sunl Earth axis is the above and below. The Nodes are the horizontal axis. It is their positions which determine our trajectory in life. They are the road the Driver, the Magnetic Monopole, drives. They are in this sense our destiny. The Nodes are also significant in that they are not an object, like the planets, but a position. Since the planets condition us by interfering with .the Neutrino stream before it can reach our crystals, the Nodes proVide our only opportunity to receive direct imput from the Stars.

In design analysis: The SOuth Node represents the Themes, both conscious and unconscious for the first half ofthe life.(The mid-point is determined by the movement of Uranus ,see Lifecycle)
The North Node represents the Themes, both conscious and unconscious for the second halfof the life.

Overview Analysis- A technique used in Human Design Analysis based on the understanding ofthe Rave Body Graph circuitry. Overview is based on Definition in a Rave Chart. Definition results when planets are positioned in Hexagram Constellations which active Hexagram gates at opposite ends of a Body Graph Channel.

A gate is open and a potential when it is activated by a planet In the Rave Body Graph, this is illustrated by colouring only halfofthe channel opening out from this gate. This is a potential. When this gate is part of a Defined Center or when the Harmonic gate at the other end ofthe same channel is opened by either another person or a transiting planet and the channel becomes defined the potential is then Active and manifests. When the opened gate is not part of a Defined Center then Its potential is Dormant, waiting for manifestation. It is through Overview analysis the Human Design System is taught to students in an eight day program.

Personality Crystal- An aspect ofthe original Yang Crystal shattered at the Big Bang. Situated in the Head center, It mainfests the Conscious Awareness, 'Who you think, you think you are".

Program- The Neutrino Stream is the'information base of our evolutionacy program. We are penetrated on Earth, second by second, by untold trillions of Neutrinos, everywhere, all the time. 70% come from the Sun and the rest from the stellar field and can be altered by the interposition ofthe Planets or the Moon. The Daily Program is illustrated in the Rave World Ephemeris, where the Program is decoded and translated into the language and graphics ofthe Human Design System.

Rave - The name given to Human Beings bythe 'Voice'.

Self - The Self manifests out of the G center. This center is the core of our seperateness and at the same time our connection to the totality The G center has eight gates. The Higher Self is silent but out of these gates it can find expression. These gates form two great crosses in the zodiac.

The four oppositions and their keynotes.
1. 1/The Creative-Self-expression
 2/Receptive-Direction of the Self
 2. 7/The Army-The role of the Self in interaction
13/Fellowship of Man-The Openness of the Self in interaction
3. 46/Pushing Upward-The Determination of the Self
25/lnnocence-The Spirit of the Self
4. 10/Treading-The Behavior of the Self
15/Modesty-The Rhythm of the Self

Transit - The movement of a planet from one hexagram Constellation to another. The procession of the Sun, Earth, Moon, planets and Lunar Nodes around the zodiac, opening and closing gates as they move.

Unconscious-In design, all the pre-natal data (880 of the Sun before birth) is experienced unconsciously. The design data represents our genetic inheritance.

Universe-According to the "Voice," a living evolving duality. Not "born" yet, still a "fetus" within the ''Womb.'' The "Child."

The "Voice"-The transmission source of the Human Design System. The knowledge came into the world from January 3 to January 11,1987 on the Island of Ibiza in the Mediterranean Sea.